Chapter 1- The Funeral

“Gotta go to the bathroom… gotta go to the bathroom…” Harry Potter repeated over and over in his mind until the words lost all meaning. He and Dudley had just spent the past two hours celebrating their graduation from their fifth years at school by having a soda drinking contest,  which Harry won. Sadly, it was a pyrrhic victory. Harry had set  a personal record by chugging down fifty-three cans of soda, and now he had to let it out… but where?
The restaurant in  which the  two  of  them  had held the  contest  was just  a small diner, it had no bathrooms, and it was on a busy street, with very few other businesses. All there was were houses, and Harry had to resist the urge to barge into one and demand to use the bathroom. The closest place they could seek refuge was Dudley’s house, but that was a little more than a mile away… could they make it?
“Why don’t you just use some magic and teleport us back home or something?”
asked Dudley, looking extremely red in the face, and almost in pain.
“I can’t… I left my wand at home,” said Harry, wanting to hit himself in the head for doing so. He had been so used to just having his wand with him wherever he went that he forgot that he actually had to bring it with him in order to have it. Back at Hogwarts, it was normal to have his wand with him wherever he went.
Of course, nothing like that would be normal to us, only to Harry and the rest of the wizarding world. You see, despite what you may think from the contest, Harry Potter is not a normal boy. He is a fifteen year old, going on sixteen, wizard student at Hogwarts School for  Witchcraft and Wizardry. There, he among many other students learn how to perform  fabulous  magic, and gain powers  that could help them  in dangerous  situations, everyday life… or situations much like the one Harry was in now.
“Arg, if  I had my wand I could just summon us a toilet  or  something,” groaned
Harry and he walked slowly forward, the pain growing with each step.
“Oh, there has to be a place somewhere around here,” said Dudley, gripping his stomach and desperately turning his head in all directions.
Harry  couldn’t  help  but  smile.  This  was his  and Dudley’s  first  time  out  doing something together, and actually enjoying each other’s company. For the past five years during summer vacations at Hogwarts, and for ten years before then, Dudley’s family, the Dursley’s, watched Harry. His  parents were killed by the most  terrible  and vicious dark wizard in over a century: Voldemort. He attacked their  house one night, to  try and steal Harry  from  his  parents.  Both  of  his  parents  died  in  the  attack,  but  Harry  managed  to survive due  to  his  mother  sacrificing  her  life  for  his.  When  Voldemort  performed  the killing curse on Harry, like he had done on hundreds of others, it just rebounded off of the invisible shield of love, and gave Harry only a small scar on his forehead.
When the curse  rebounded back to Voldemort, it nearly killed him, turning him into a feeble spirit that wandered the world for thirteen years, trying to regain his former power. At the end of  Harry’s fourth year at Hogwarts, Voldemort  managed to  resurrect himself, and rose to become even more horrible than before. Now, instead of trying to kill Harry, he has been trying to recruit him into his army of darkness.
Up  until  now,  Harry  hadn’t  stopped  worrying  about  Voldemort.  But,  at  this moment, he had more pressing matters at hand; like his exploding bladder.
 
“Oh man, we’ve got to find a place quick!” yelled Dudley and Harry at the same time, surprising each other. After a quick laugh, they returned to their previous states, and continued looking.
Suddenly, a place  appeared  before  them.  It was the  most  glorious  place  in  the world. It shone its  magnificent light, becoming the greatest  building of  all. It was like a mirage in a desert, it was salvation in a city. It was…
“A funeral home!” exclaimed Harry, pointing it out to Dudley. His face suddenly perked up.
“Oh yeah, they have to  have ‘facilities’  in there!” he  said, looking happier  than Harry had ever seen him. With every ounce of energy in them, the two boys ran toward the building, gritting  their  teeth,  and trying to  stop  their  eyes  from  watering. Finally,  after what felt like hours, they reached the front door and burst inside.
“May I help you… gentlemen?” asked a man at a desk in front of them. At first, he had a pleasant tone, but then once he saw the condition of Harry and Dudley’s clothes (not at all appropriate for the place they were in) he immediately stuck his massive nose high in the air, stood up, and put on a snobbish attitude.
“Yes, do you have a bathroom anywhere?” gasped Harry.
“Well  yes,  but  they  are  only  for  people  visiting  the  deceased,”  said  the  man, sticking  his  nose,  if  it  was  possible,  higher  into  the  air.  “Are  you  here  to  pay  your respects?”
“Um…” stuttered Harry.
“Yes… yes of course,” interjected Dudley. “We’re here to… um… see grandma! Yeah, right! Grandma!” The man put his nose down slightly.
“Oh really? Well, Mrs. Perenelle  is still accepting visitors,” he said, sitting down and pointing his arm in the direction of a long hallway. “You may go see her.”
“Thanks,” groaned Harry and Dudley together quickly, running off as fast as they
 
could.

 


“What did you think you were doing?” demanded Harry, elbowing Dudley in the
 
side. “What if they didn’t have any dead women? What then? Where would ‘grandma’ be?”
“I dunno,” shrugged Dudley. “We’d just run away I guess. Sometimes you’ve got to take a chance. I did, and it paid off!”
“We’re  lucky  it  did,” said  Harry.  “Now where’s  the  bathroom?”  Both  of  them turned their heads in every direction, scanning the hallway, trying to find the familiar signs of a lavatory. Suddenly, Dudley tapped Harry on the back, gasping that he saw one. They ran over to it, faster than they had ever run in their lives; even faster, for Harry, than when he was trying to get away from Voldemort.

After  several  minutes,  both  boys  left  the  bathroom,  their  tongues  hanging out, feeling greatly relieved. Harry put his hand on Dudley’s shoulder.
“Let’s never do that again,” he said.
“Well, just don’t forget your wand next time and we’ll be okay.”
“Hey Dudley, what should we do about… her?” asked Harry, pointing to the room that the woman was in that they were supposed to be seeing as they walked by it.
“What about her?”
“Well,  it’s  thanks to  her  that  we were  able  to  use  the  bathroom.  The least  we
 
could do is thank her.”
“I guess so… let’s just make it quick.”
The two of  them quickly popped into the small, slightly decorated room. Harry was surprised, however, at the lack of  flowers  or  pictures.  It was as if  no one had been there, as if no one cared that she had died.
“Look at this,” said Dudley, reading the guest book. “No one’s been here yet, and according to this, the wake ends in just a few minutes. Where is everyone?”
“Maybe she didn’t have any friends or family,” suggested Harry, walking over to the open coffin. He looked in, and saw an extremely old woman inside. Her hair was pure white, with a small golden crown, and she  looked at least  one  hundred years  old, if  not more. Her face was just a peach colored prune, and there were so many wavy wrinkles in her arms and hands, it was not hard to imagine someone surfing on them.
“Well… thanks,” whispered Harry to her, backing away slowly. “Heh, you saved our lives…. Ready to go Dudley?”
“Yep,” he said, putting down a pen.
“What were you doing with that?” asked Harry.
“I just put down our names in the guest book,” he responded. “To make our story more believable..”
“Good thinking. Alright, let’s go.”
Both of  them walked out of  the home, trying to  look like they were mourning. The man at the front appeared to  have been satisfied with their  look, he just nodded and went back to his work as they passed by.
“I hope you found your visit… relieving,” said the man.
“Oh yes, it was very relieving,” said Harry, trying not to burst out laughing as they walked out of the door.

The two of them walked the rest of the way back to Dudley’s house, still laughing and reminiscing  about their  little  adventure.  Just  when they were  reliving the  best  part, Mrs.  Figg, their  old  neighbor  (who  happened to  be  a witch  and a teacher  at  Hogwarts) shouted out to them.
“Hello Harry!” she yelled from her door, walking outside.
“Hello Mrs. Figg,” said Harry, walking over to her.
“Oh… hello there Dudley,” she said. “Not used to seeing you two together.”
“Yeah, me and Harry have kind of…become friends since last summer.”
“Oh, well that’s nice.”
“What did you want to tell me, Mrs. Figg?” asked Harry.
“Oh  yes!  Well,  I  wanted  to  tell  you  that  I  will  not  be  teaching  this  year  at
Hogwarts.”
“What? Why not?” asked Harry, feeling extremely upset. “You were one  of  the best  Defense  Against the  Dark Arts teachers  I’ve ever had… the entire  school  has ever had!”
“Well, teaching just isn’t my thing, Harry. I much prefer actually being out there fighting the dark forces  than teaching how to  do it. I only did it  last year because there were no others willing to do it, and I felt as though I owed that school something. But, you don’t have to worry; someone just as good, if not better than me is taking my place.”
 
“Oh I doubt that,” said Harry. “But who is?”
“Professor Quirrell.”
“What!?” yelled Harry, almost knocking himself and Mrs. Figg over. “But, he died five years ago! He was a servant to Voldemort!”
“Oh no no no no no,” said Mrs. Figg, waving her arms. “That was Larry Quirrell. This is Jerry Quirrell, his twin brother.”
“He had a twin brother?” asked Harry.
“Yes, and you know how they say when twins are born, one is supposedly evil, and the other  is  good? Well, before  I knew the Quirrell  children, I never believed that. But, they are a perfect example of that theory. Larry was foul, and Jerry is lovely.”
“Well,  I hope  so,”  said  Harry,  still  not  feeling  too  sure.  He  personally  fought Quirrell at the end of his first year at Hogwarts, and it was not a very pleasant experience, nor was it especially easy. “But why are you telling me now?”
“Harry, unlike students, teachers do not have the summers off. Me, among many others, are still quite busy at work, trying to keep the world we live in a safe one. I will be gone for the rest of summer, and wouldn’t have a chance to tell you. I figured it would be better for you to hear it from me rather than just find out on the first day of school.”
“Oh okay,” said  Harry.  “But, one  more  thing.  Is  Snape  going to  teach  Potions again this year, or is someone else?” Mrs. Figg let out a laugh.
“I’m afraid so, Harry,” she said. “Snape will be back.”
“Too bad,” sighed Harry. “I lose  a good teacher  and gain a bad one, both in the same year. It’d be nice if Lupin could come back… or Sirius.”
“I don’t think Sirius will be coming back anytime soon,” she groaned. “Ever since last  year,  with Cornelius  Fudge  having been  revealed  for  what he  was, the  Ministry  of Magic has been extremely desperate to  show that they can do something right. So, they went back to their old attempt at catching Sirius.”
“He’s evaded them before, I’m sure he can do it again.”
“I’m not so certain, Harry,” she admitted. “This time, the Ministry is using very advanced magic to  find him; especially one spell, the Possession  Position Spell. If they get a hold of something that they know belongs to Sirius, they can immediately find him no matter where he is on Earth. I’ve heard he’s trying to give most of his stuff away to his most trusted friends to try and avoid it.”
“I hope they don’t get him…” said Harry, feeling a little worried.
“Now don’t fret too much,” said Mrs. Figg. “I do not want you to lose sleep over
 
this.”



 


“Speaking of which…” moaned Harry, trying to indicate that he wanted to leave.
“Ah yes, it is getting late,” said Mrs. Figg, walking back to her door. “I’ll see you
 
boys later!”
“Goodbye Mrs. Figg,” yelled Harry, running up to the door to the Dursley’s house alongside Dudley. “And… good luck!”
“Who’s  Snape?”  asked  Dudley  when  Harry  opened  the  door,  having  a  very dumbfounded look on his face. Harry merely laughed as they walked in. Dudley was so oblivious to Harry’s world, it was funny.
“Where  have  you  two  been!?”  scorned  Harry’s  Aunt  Petunia  the  second  they stepped inside, as if she had just been standing there, waiting to pounce.
 
“Will you shut it mom,” said Dudley, closing the door. “I’ll be sixteen in just a few days, I think I can take care of myself.”
“Well of course you can take care of yourself in a normal situation, Dudley,” she said.  “But,  whenever…  he’s  around  (she  pointed  to  Harry)  the  situation  can  never  be normal.” Dudley just sighed at her response. Unlike him, the rest of the Dursleys had not yet come to respect the fact that Harry was a wizard, and nothing was going to change that. Dudley waved his  arm, indicating to  Harry to  come  into  the  living room  and partake in their  favorite  activity (even more  than soda chugging): watching Monty Python and the Holy Grail.
“Did I tell you watching this movie saved me during a test last year?” asked Harry.
“Hah! and they said memorizing it would never pay off!”
“Oh yeah,  and there’s  something  else  I’ve been  meaning to  tell  you  Dudley…
oh… what was it…?”
“Well, out with it!” he said, taking the movie out of its cover.
“Oh… it was…. Oh man, it’s on the tip of my tongue!” said Harry, snapping his
 
fingers.






 


“Come on! Use your magic or something to remember!”
“Oh yeah! That’s it, I remember now!”
“What is it?”
“Dudley… you’re a wizard.”
 
Chapter 2- Dobby Again

Dudley  dropped  the  video  to  the  floor,  and he  stayed  squatted  there,  with  his mouth opened wide. Harry knew he should have waited for a better time… but this was the best he could think of.
“I’m a… what?” stuttered Dudley.
“You’re a wizard, like me,” said Harry, trying to stay calm.
“But- but… how could I… be a wizard?” Harry tried  not  to  smile.  Dudley was reacting to the new the same way he did when he was told that he was one too.
“I can assure you that you are.”
“But… I don’t go to that school of yours, and- and… I’ve never done anything…
magical. And how could I be… that way… with parents like mine?” Harry sighed. Voldemort had told him the answers to all the same questions at the
end of last year when he was holding Harry captive, and he didn’t really feel like having to repeat it all over again. But, he had to. He had brought this new burden to Dudley, and he had to try and begin to relieve it.
“Well  Dudley,  to   answer  your  first   question,  the  reason  you  don’t  attend Hogwarts is because Voldemort somehow changed the attendance sheet for the new first years, when it was your time to come, so that your name was not on it.”
“Why did he do that?”
“I never told you about the Kinsafe Charm put on this house, did I?”
“Um… no?”
“I guess not then,” sighed Harry. “Well, when I was brought here, Dumbledore put the charm on the house so that as long as I was around family, Voldemort could not touch me. Now, if you came to Hogwarts with me, I’d still have that protection at school, which is something Voldemort definitely did not want.”
“Oh, okay. I see,” said Dudley, wide-eyed and not looking like he did ‘see’ at all.
“But  still,  how can  I  be  magical?  I’ve never  done  any magic  and my  parents  certainly aren’t!”
“Well, I’m not sure how to say this, but your mom is a witch, Dudley.” Dudley didn’t say anything, he just merely continued to stare at Harry, with a drop
of drool slowly falling down from his mouth. Harry decided to keep on talking.
“You know that your mom and mine are twins, but what you don’t know, is  that their father is Voldemort.” Harry stopped there for a second. The thought just occurred to him: Voldemort was his grandfather. He shuddered at the thought. “It’s just by chance that he chose to help my mom out at a young age and give her a magic book to read before she even started school, giving her a huge advantage. When the time came for new students to be chosen, Lily so  overshadowed Petunia, that they just forgot  about her, and she never came to school. So, just because she never went to Hogwarts doesn’t mean she lost  her powers.”
“But why doesn’t she use magic now?” asked Dudley, quietly and slowly.
“After  a  while,  I  guess  Hogwarts  discovered  their  mistake  and they  wiped  her memory, making her forget she was ever a witch. But, yet again, that didn’t take away her powers, and when she gave birth to you, you gained some of them.”
“So I’m… a wizard?” gasped Dudley.
 
“That’s what I said.”
“Wow,” said Dudley, slowly getting up and sitting in a chair. “So… am I going to be coming to Hogwarts then?”
“Err…” stuttered Harry, he hadn’t really thought about that. He had been meaning to owl Dumbledore. “I think so.”
“Oh man… I don’t know what to say,” said Dudley, starting to look a little better, and possibly excited. “So, I’ll be able to make fire, and summon brooms, and even control the weather?”
“Um… sure,” said Harry, not wanting to get Dudley’s hopes too high. There was always the chance that he wouldn’t be coming. But, it  couldn’t hurt to  get him started a little. “In fact, let’s practice some right now!”
“That sounds like a great idea,” said Dudley, jumping up from off  his chair, and dropping the video on the floor, ready to start exploring his new life.

“That’s it!  Now you’re  getting  the  hang of  it!” said  Harry  to  Dudley,  after  his seventieth attempt at trying to perform a simple Lumos Spell resulted in some light. Even though he was using Harry’s wand, and was therefore not as powerful as if he had used one that was his own, Harry hadn’t expected it to make that much of a difference.
“Hey! I made some light!” squealed Dudley with excitement.
“Good job,” said Harry, giving a small yawn. They had been practicing basic spells all day long inside the living room, and it was now extremely late. “But, I think it’s time to call it a night. We’ll practice some more tomorrow.”
“Alright, Harry,” he squeaked, giving him his wand back. Harry felt much stronger and more confident when he had his wand; it felt great to have it back.
“Good night, Harry,” yawned Dudley, walking up the stairs to his room.
“See you later,” said Harry, for one of the first times in his life, actually looking forward to the rest of his summer vacation.

Each  day,  for  the  next  several  weeks,  Harry  and  Dudley  practiced  magic.  Of course,  they  only  did  it  while  not  in  the  presence  of  Dudley’s  parents:  Harry’s  Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon. Hearing them walk through the door, returning from whatever they were doing all day (work or mindless gossiping), was the low of the two boys’ day.
Finally, when Dudley was able to perform most spells that an average First Year would be  able  to  do,  Harry decided  it  was time  to  send Dumbledore  a letter,  to  see  if Dudley would be  able  to  come  to  Hogwarts  next  year.  So,  when Uncle  Vernon walked through the door and their lesson was over, Harry decided it would be a good time to write it.
“I’ve got some  things to  do,” said Harry, trying to  find an excuse.  “I’ll see  you later Dudley. Keep working on memorizing those spells names!”
“I will,”  he  said,  engaged  in  reading one  of  Harry’s  schoolbooks,  staying  in  a position that would allow him to  quickly hide it if one of  his parents entered the room. Harry scooted up the stairs as fast as he could, and when he arrived in his room, he ripped out a piece of parchment from one of his notebooks on which he would write the letter. After just a few seconds of making a mental outline, he wrote:
 
Dear Professor Dumbledore,

How are you? I am fine here, living with the Muggles. I must say, it has been one of  my better  vacations,  due  to  my new friendship with my cousin  Dudley. Speaking of which, I’m not sure if I forgot to mention this to you or not, but at the end of last year, Voldemort  told me that my Aunt Petunia was a witch, and that Dudley is  now a wizard. Hearing this, I am wondering if it is possible for Dudley to begin at Hogwarts, since he has the magical power, all he needs is the proper teaching.
Please reply soon. Sincerely, Harry Potter

Harry reread it, to make sure it sounded good, and it sufficed. He folded it up, and walked over to his white owl, Hedwig, who was asleep in her cage. Harry opened the small door to the cage, put his hand on her, and shook the owl gently. Her eyes opened, and she gave a quiet hoot.
“I need you to  send this  to  Dumbledore,” ordered Harry, attaching the letter  to her leg. Immediately, Hedwig stood up and ruffled her feathers, trying to look important and superior. Harry gave her a small pat, and she nipped his finger. He stepped back and she flew out of the window.
Harry  watched  her  fly  away for  a few seconds,  until  she  was out  of  sight.  He crossed his arms, smiled to himself, turned around, and gave a yell.
“AAAHHH!”
“Hello Harry Potter!” squeaked an all too familiar creature.
“Dobby!” gasped Harry loudly, clutching his chest  and trying to  regain himself.
“You- you scared me! Don’t sneak up on people like that.”
“I is  very sorry  sir,”  squeaked Dobby. Harry  looked  at  him,  and he  looked  no different from the last time they met, except for the clothes he was wearing. On his arms, he had on some rubber gloves; yellow on the left, and blue on the right. Over his body, he had extremely loose  rainbow suspenders, and over those, on his legs, he had very baggy black pants, something you’d expect a punk kid to wear. Harry knew Dobby liked to flaunt his freedom, but he’d never seen him do it to this extent. “But, I is having to sneaks up on you! I is having to tell you something very important!”
“What is it this time, Dobby?” sighed Harry. Last time they had met like this, in
Harry’s bedroom, Dobby had threatened Harry not to return to Hogwarts.
“I is very sorry to say this, sir,” he squeaked, “but you cannot returns to Hogwarts this year!” Harry sighed.
“Dobby… we’ve been through this before.”
“No!” yelled Dobby, much more forcefully than Harry had ever heard him speak.
“No!  This  times  is  completely  different!  This  times,  if  Harry  Potter  is  returning  to
Hogwarts, he will certainly die, along with many others!”
“Why, what is it this time?” asked Harry in a bored voice. “Has the Chamber of
Secrets been opened again?”
“No no no! I is not able to say!”
 
“But Dobby, you don’t have a master anymore. You are a free  elf  now. You can say whatever you want, whenever you want.”
“Not really, Harry Potter, sir. I is still having masters. But, we does not have time to talk now! We is having to leave… now!”
“I’m not leaving, Dobby,” said Harry. “Last time, nothing serious happened to me, and nothing will happen this time either. You can either tell me what the threat is now, or let me find out for myself later. Either way, I’m going back to Hogwarts.”
“If you is  not  coming because  you is  wanting to,  you is  coming because  I am forcing you to!” said Dobby quite loudly. He suddenly put both if his arms out, one on top of the other, with some space in between. He closed his eyes, and began to shake a little, and a blue orb appeared between his hands. The elf  then yelled some  sort  of  incoherent chant, and the orb grew ten times  its  size and imploded on itself,  creating a small black hole that was sucking in everything in the room.
Harry was immediately drawn toward it, but he lashed out for the end post of his bed, and held on, his legs high in the air, being drawn into the hole. His entire room was spinning,  and  everything  was  being  sucked  to  the  middle.  On  top  of  that,  there  was  a deafening windy noise, like a hundred tornadoes.
“Dobby! Stop this!” yelled Harry as loud as he could, still holding on.
“Not  unless  you  is  coming  with  me!”  said  Dobby,  as  clear  as  a  bell.  He  was standing in a corner of the room, unaffected by his own spell.
Harry had to think of something. His bed was beginning to shake too, it was being sucked into  the  hole  along with everything else.  He  had to  get  out  of  the  room! Harry desperately looked around for anything that would help him.
Then he saw it: his broomstick! Of course, why hadn’t he thought of that before? Harry  slowly  climbed  his  way up the  bed  sheets  and towards  the  broom  that  was  still stationary where it was. Apparently since it was magical, the spell had no effect on it, and since it was a Firebolt, it didn’t even phase it. Harry continued climbing along his blankets, and soon reached the broom. Just as the bed was beginning to shake, and getting ready to join the swirling mass, Harry made a daring leap from his where he was to the broom, and grabbed on tight.
“See you later Dobby!” yelled Harry, mounting the Firebolt.
“No! Harry  Potter  cannots  leave!” screamed  Dobby as  Harry  raced  out  of  the window, and into the open air. He took a deep breath, filled his lungs, and then exhaled it all out. Flying was the greatest, and most natural to Harry of everything in the wizarding world. It was the most exhilarating thing in the universe… well, at least the second most. There were only two things in the world that could compare to flying on a broom: flying as a gryffin through the air, and being with Cho Chang, the greatest girl in Hogwarts.
Ever since  he  first  saw her  in his  second  year, Harry had had a crush  on  Cho. However, he had never really done anything about it until last year, when the two of them went  out  on  their  first  date,  and  had  silently  proclaimed  each  other  boyfriend  and girlfriend.
As for  flying as a gryffin, during his last year, Harry had become  an Animagus, that  is,  a  wizard who  can  transform  into  an animal  without  the  use  of  a  wand. Harry’s gryffin was a half lion and half bird creature, possessing the greatest attributes of both; it was truly a beast to behold.
 
Harry suddenly snapped out of his little daydream, and returned to the real world. He found himself flying several hundred feet above the ground, looking down at the tiny buildings, cars, and ant-like people. It suddenly occurred to him that he had no idea where he was going. He certainly had to pick a destination. He couldn’t return to the Dursleys, at least  for  a while.  Not  until  he  was sure  Dobby wouldn’t return…  which was never. He couldn’t fly all the way to  Hogwarts… he didn’t even know where it was. The last place left  he  could  go,  which  in  this  case  was  definitely  not  least,  was  his  best  friend  Ron Weasley’s house. Last year, Harry had found himself  in a very similar situation (fleeing from the Dursleys) and went to Ron’s place for a while. Why not do the same thing again? Harry sped off in the direction to the Weasley’s house, hoping he was going the
right way since he didn’t have a map this time.

After a few wrong turns and dead ends, (which was very odd since he was in the air) Harry eventually found his way. Once he was on the right path, it wasn’t long before he arrived at Ron’s house.
It looked just like Harry remembered it: a house that looked far too  tall, and at too  much of  an angle to  one side. If such a thing existed in the Muggle world, it would surely  fall  over  within an instant. But, things  such as  it  were  common  in  the  wizarding world in which Harry lived in.
Harry flew down towards the  front  door,  dismounted his broom, and ‘rang’ the doorbell that made the entire house flash bright for just a second. Harry slung his broom over his shoulder, and wondered who would answer the door.
If  there  was  one  thing  that  set  the  Weasleys  apart  from  any  other  wizarding family… it would be two things: the fact that everyone in their house had bright red hair that made it appear as though there was an inferno whenever they had a family picture, and the insane amount of children they had. As far as Harry knew,  Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had seven children, six boys and one girl. Five of the six boys, however, had already graduated from Hogwarts, and only Ron and Ginny (the girl) were still in it.
Just then, the door opened, and Mrs. Weasley appeared in the doorway. She was a kind,  plump  lady  who  was  always  ready  to  welcome  anyone  and  everyone.  Her  face immediately lit up when she saw Harry standing in front of her.
“Oh hello Harry dear!” she said, standing back and opening the door some more for him to walk through. “Come in, come in! What brings you here?”
“House elf trouble,” groaned Harry, walking inside.
“Ooh, if I had a nickel for each time I heard that excuse! I’d have… well, let’s see here… three nickels!”
“Um… that’s good,” said Harry, rolling his eyes slightly. As he did, he got a full view of the main room that was usually crowded with Weasleys during the summer, but for some reason, empty right now. “Where is everyone?”
“Oh,” sighed Mrs. Weasley. “Fred and George  have finally officially opened up their business down in Diagon Alley. The two of them and Percy are there now, working.”
“Their store  is open?” asked Harry, feeling very excited. For the past two years, Fred and George  had been wanting to  open up a joke  shop, and due to  a very generous donation from Harry, Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes became a reality. “I can’t wait to see it!”
“Yes, neither could Ginny. She’s down there now, too.”
 
“But… why is Percy helping? I thought he was working for the Ministry.”
“Oh, with all that happened to Crouch a while ago, Percy lost all will to continue working in that field.  No,  he  left  that some  time  ago, and has started  helping Fred and George with their business.”
“Is Ron here?” asked Harry, sounding hopeful.
“Oh yes, he’s in no rush to see the shop. He’s rather enjoying being away from the chaos of their insane inventions, and I don’t disagree. He’s upstairs in his room by the way, playing with his cards.”
“Oh, the chocolate frog cards?”
“No,  these  are  something  different.  With  these  new  ones,  you  actually  play games. Ron seems to enjoy it, but I Haven’t really looked into it yet. Why don’t you go on up and see for yourself?”
“I think  I  will,”  said  Harry,  running  up  the  crooked  stairs  to  Ron’s  room.  He reached the top rather quickly, and threw open the door, revealing Ron’s extremely orange room, and Ron himself, sitting on his bed with playing cards all around him.
“Hello Ron,” said Harry. Ron immediately looked up and waved to him.
“Hello Harry!” he said. “What are you doing here? Muggle trouble?”
“Nah, Dobby.”
“Hmm, I see,” he said, returning to the cards.
“What’cha got there?”
“Oh, it’s a new card game,” said Ron, looking up slightly. “It’s really fun, and it has all sorts of real people and things in it.”
“Have you got a million Dumbledores  again?” asked Harry, sitting down next to him on the bed.
“No,  he’s  one  of  the  rarest  ones,”  said  Ron,  still  organizing  the  cards.  Harry picked one up, and read it off.
“Let’s see  here: ‘Boggart, power of  four’ . Well, there  might not be much text, but wow! The artwork looks very nice, and they really are based on real things! Is it a fun game?”
“You bet,” said Ron, grabbing the card out of Harry’s hand and putting it in a pile.
“Want to learn how to play?”
“Sure,” said Harry eagerly, eyeing all of the cards hungrily. It was as if they had some sort of drawing power on him, beckoning him to touch them, and mocking him for not doing so.
“Alright,  well  there’s  two  types  of  cards:  fighters  and  effects.  The  fighters… well, do the fighting, and the effects help you and hurt your opponents. Each turn, you get to  use  two  total  actions,  made up of  playing fighters  or  using effects,  or  even drawing additional cards. Then, your fighters attack your opponent’s fighters, and once you have no fighters in play, all the damage comes to you, that is, your deck.”
“Sounds kind of complex,” said Harry, his head beginning to spin.
“Nah, not really. No more  than Quidditch anyway. One you play a game or  two, you’ll get the hang of it.”
“Can we play a game?” asked Harry, waning to try it out.
“No, I don’t have enough cards yet, and you need sixty for each deck.”
“Oh, too bad.”
 
“But… I think I remember dad once telling me that he had quite a collection.”
“What? You mean, this card game had been around before?”
“Oh  yeah.  This  cards  game  used  to  be  the  most  popular  one,  but  then  the chocolate  frog cards took over for  a while. Now though, these  ones  are back and better than ever!”
“Do you know where he kept them?” Ron put his hand up and began stroking his chin thoughtfully.
“Well  I’m not  exactly  sure,  but  I  do  have an  idea!  Let’s  go  downstairs!”  Ron jumped up from his bed, causing most of his cards to fall on the floor. He ran over to the door, and shouted down with his friend.
“Alright! I’ll be down in a second! Just let me write a note to Dudley telling him where I am!” Harry scanned Ron’s extremely cluttered desk for a quill and a spare piece of parchment. He found a tattered pigeon feather under a pile of books, and ripped out a sheet of parchment from one of Ron’s old books. He quickly scribbled down a note to Dudley, telling him he had some ‘business’ with Ron, and had to leave abruptly, but he should be back later.
Harry folded the letter  up, and walked over to Ron’s tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, who was fluttering about in his small cage, looking extremely excited at the hope of sending a letter.
“I need you to send this to Dudley,” said Harry, opening the door to the cage, and attaching the letter  to  Pigwidgeon’s small leg. “He’s a Muggle that lives in Surrey. You shouldn’t have too much trouble finding him, just look for the most normal-looking house you can see  and that’s it.” Pigwidgeon puffed his feathers  out, and gave a funny sort  of salute. Harry burst out laughing; he looked like a small and extremely fluffy kid who had his cheeks puffed out. A second later, though, Pigwidgeon was out the window and on his way.
Harry, upon seeing  that  his  letter  was okay, began walking downstairs  to  meet Ron. He  ran down, as fast  as he could, eager  to  see  what Ron had found. When he got downstairs, Harry saw him sitting in a giant red chair in a corner of the house Harry had never really taken any notice of before. Around the chair were two massive shelves, each filled  to  the  point  of  overflowing with books,  like  a mini-library.  Ron  was engaged in reading a particularly large one at the moment, and was flipping through it very quickly.
“What are you reading?” asked Harry, walking over to the chair.
“Reading? No, I’m looking,” said Ron, keeping his head down. “This is a picture album; this entire library is filled with picture albums.”
“Ohh,” said  Harry,  eyeing  the  shelves  and  wondering  how  many  thousands  of pictures there were.
“Here, grab one and look for some cards,” said Ron, blindly taking a book down and throwing it to Harry. “I know they’re in one of these.” Harry walked over and cracked open the book. Revealed inside was a single, full page that was like a miniature television screen. Like most wizard pictures, the people and things inside were moving. This picture showed a scene of a young Ron running around in the yard in his diaper, chasing after Fred and George, squealing the entire time.
“Aw, you were such a cute baby!” said Harry sarcastically. Ron peered over and sighed at the sight himself of the picture.
 
“Keep looking,” he said sternly, turning the page for  Harry and putting his own album away and getting a new one. Harry laughed and looked at the next sheet. This time, instead of there being one giant image taking up the entire page, there were nine smaller pictures, each depicting a different event.
“Wow,” said Harry, gazing at each of the photos. He put his fingers out at the top middle one, a picture of two small boys, with red hair of course, playing on a swing set. Harry had no idea who they were, it could be any of the six Weasley boys. But, as Harry looked closer, he saw in the bottom right corner of the picture a girl with red hair, and she looked older than the other two in the picture. As Harry looked even closer, he saw that the	girl	was	writing	something	in	the	sand…	a	single	word:	“Jamie”. Harry put his hand over the picture, and swung the book over, to try and ask Ron who the boys and the girl were in the picture. But, just as the album was going through the air, the picture that Harry had his hand on fell out.
“Oh Harry!” said Ron, sounding annoyed. “Try not to make any pictures fall out!”
“Sorry,”  apologized  Harry,  bending  over  to  pick  them  up.  “Wait  a  minute….” Where  Harry had thought only one  picture  had fallen out, there  were actually two now. Harry picked them up, and looked at them; one of the images was the one he had looked at before,  the  picture  of  the  two  boys  and  the  girl,  but  the  other  one  was  completely different. It was a photo of a much younger Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Harry guessed at least ten or fifteen years, with a single, small girl in front of both of them. Who was she?
“Hey Ron,” said Harry, still looking at the picture. “Who is this?” Ron looked up from his album, and glanced at the picture.
“Oh that’s… wait a second,” said Ron, looking surprised. He dropped his book, and walked over to Harry, still looking at the picture. He took the image into his hand, and examined it up close. “Hmm, I’ve never seen this picture before.”
“Well, isn’t it  just  one  of  Bill  or  Charlie?” asked Harry. It was hard to  tell  the gender of a baby at that age, it could have been a boy. But, Ron shook his head, and showed him the picture, pointing to a calendar in the background.
“No. Bill  was born in 1975,  and Charlie  was born in 1977.  The calendar in the back here says the year is 1974. Neither of them were alive at that time.”
There was a few seconds of an awkward silence.
“So… who is that girl?” asked Harry. “I mean, she’s definitely a Weasley.”
“Yeah, just look at that hair! But I have no idea who he is…. The only girl in this family is Ginny.”
“Well, why don’t you just ask your mom?”
“Good idea,” said Ron, sounding serious and standing up. The two of them, with Ron carrying the picture, walked over to  Mrs. Weasley who was cooking something for dinner.
“What can I help you with boys?” she asked, stirring something in a pot.
“Mom, who is this?” asked Ron, showing her the picture. “That is, the girl in this picture?” Mrs. Weasley lazily looked over, and turned around, with her  pot in her hand. But, when her eyes met the photo, she dropped the container, causing whatever was inside to fall to the floor with a gigantic crash. Her eyes grew wide, and she snatched the photo out of Ron’s hand.
“Mom, are you going to do something about the-” Ron was cut off.
 
“Where did you get this?” she demanded, not looking at all her normally kind self. Her face was all scrunched up and red, and reminded Harry more of an angry rhino than a loving mother.
“It… it was in the photo album….” stuttered Ron.
“I thought I told Arthur to hide this.…” fumed Mrs. Weasley quietly to herself.
“Hide… what, mom?” asked Ron.
“Nothing! Nothing at all!” she said, trying to look cheerful again. She tapped the spill on the floor with her wand, and it magically cleaned itself up. She stood back before her stove, and inconspicuously crumpled up the picture in her hand. “Nothing at all dears, now go run along and-”
“No mom,” said Ron, cutting her off. “Who is the girl in that picture?”
“Oh my! Look at the time!” gasped Mrs. Weasley, looking at a non-existent watch on her wrist. “I had better go do… something.” She began shuffling off, but Ron looked as though he was not going to take no for an answer. He reached into his pocket, and took out his wand.
“Locomotor  Mortis!” he  yelled,  pointing his  wand at  his  mother.  Immediately, her legs magically fused together, and she stopped dead in her tracks.
“Thank goodness  Dumbledore  is  letting us use  magic at home now,” whispered
Ron to Harry. Mrs. Weasley, however, was not looking nearly as happy.
“Ronald Weasley!” she yelled, looking furious. “You had better take this spell off of me before I-”
“No! I want you to tell us who this girl is in the picture!” yelled Ron, unfolding the   crumpled  image,  and  pointing  to   the   unknown  child.  “Evidently,  it’s   someone important, or you would have told us by now!”
“Ron, take this spell off of me and-”
“Don’t make me go and get the Veritaserum,” said Ron, pointing his wand at his mother. Harry didn’t know how to feel, he was trying to  keep quiet. It was very exciting and horrible at the same time what was going on. Mrs. Weasley gave a loud sigh.
“I knew someone would find out eventually,” she said quietly.
“Find out? About what?” asked Ron, looking curious.
“Ron,” said Mrs.  Weasley  slowly, “there’s  something I’ve both  wanted and not wanted to tell you for the past sixteen years. I’ve wanted to tell the entire family, actually, but I just… couldn’t.”
“Tell me what? What is it?”
“It is the only secret this family has. The only thing that has ever made this family, at one point, feel weak. It is the greatest loss we had ever faced.”
“What is it already? And what does this have to do with the picture?”
“Ron…” said Mrs. Weasley slowly, “you have another sister.”
 
Chapter 3- Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes, Inc.

Ron’s mouth practically fell to the floor, along with his wand. Harry as well felt a wave of disbelief and shock come over him. There was another Weasley girl? How could this possibly be?
“But…” stuttered  Ron, “I thought there  was just  me, Bill, Charlie,  Percy, Fred, George, and Ginny. Who else is there?”
“First  off,”  said  Mrs.  Weasley  with  a  great  sigh,  “will  you  please  take  this ridiculous curse off of me?”
“Yeah yeah, sure,” said Ron. Wide-eyed, he bent over for his wand, and removed the Leg-Locker curse from his mother. She rubbed her legs and sat down in the red chair by the library.
“So who is my other sister?” asked Ron, walking over to her. Harry followed.
“That,” said Mrs. Weasley, “is a long and not very pleasant tale.”
“We’ve got a few months until we have to return to Hogwarts,” said Ron, crossing his arms. “I’m sure that will be enough time to tell it.”
“Very well,” sighed Mrs. Weasley, slapping her legs. She took a deep breath, and began. “Well, I guess it all starts in the year 1970. That was the year your father and I got married, Ron. It was a lovely ceremony, held in the  North  Pole,  something your  father wanted to do. For the next two years, we contemplated having children, what with the state that the wizarding world was in at the time, but decided to go for it anyway. So, in 1973, Jamie was born.”
“Jamie? Is that my long-lost sister?”
“Yes, Jamie was her name. Now we, that is your father and I, were perfectly happy with  only  one  child.  However,  the  area  in  which  we  lived  was not  very  populated,  and except for  a few teenagers, Jamie was the only kid. We decided the best way for  her to have a playmate was to have another child. So, in 1975, Bill was born, and the two of them were as happy as could be.
“Now, around this  time,  dark activity  was slowing down, and we were  actually doing pretty well, financially wise. So, we decided that if we could afford another kid, why not? It would be nice for Jamie and Bill to have another playmate. So, in 1977, Charlie was born, adding to the happiness.
“However, I’m sure as you two know, in a group of three, there is always one that gets left out.”
Harry and Ron looked at each other. In their  group of  three, the two of  the and Hermione,  it  always  seemed  as  though  each  was  getting  his  or  her  equal  share  of attention… right?
“Well, in this case, that was Bill. He was the middle child, and didn’t have the glamour of being the oldest, nor the cuteness of the youngest. The only solution we saw for this was to bring yet another child into the world, Percy.
“Now, at this time, Hogwarts was accepting young wizards and witches at the age of ten, if they showed enough talent. Jamie was the most talented witch of her time, and Hogwarts couldn’t wait to have her. In 1983, she started at school, and we were left with only three children, and now Percy was the one being left out.
“This is where things all started going wrong… no offense. Arthur and I decided
 
than one  more  child would be perfect.  However, neither  of  us were  prepared for  twins. You-Know-Who’s rise to power started, and your father had to work extra long hours. It was  terrible:  Charlie  and  Bill  always  asking  me  for  the  latest  Quidditch  supplies,  and Percy demanding higher quality books, he could read at that age, all the while, Fred and George were screaming their eyeballs out. I thought nothing else could go wrong… until the day of the fieldtrip.
“Back then, all students at the school  could go, not just the upper class  wizards and witches. In fact, I think this incident is why they changed that rule.”
“Why? What happened? Where did they go?” demanded Ron.
“It was a field trip to the Egyptian pyramids,” continued Mrs. Weasley. “We were so happy that Jamie was going, and we even came to Hogwarts the day she left. And today we are so thankful that we did, that was the last time anyone one of us ever saw her.”
“What happened? Did she die?”
“Perhaps…” trailed  Mrs.  Weasley. “No one  is  positive today. All we know for sure is that she was walking along with her group one second, and then suddenly, she was gone.”
“Gone?” gasped Ron.
“Yes. She completely disappeared without a trace. We regret so much only taking that one picture of her, and the other one which had her in the corner. That’s why we have so many pictures of you other kids… in case anything ever happened to one of you.”
There was another very awkward silence.
“So… why haven’t you told any us, mom?” asked Ron slowly and quietly.
“Well, once we found out about Jamie, your father and I were at first heartbroken, and we stayed in that state of complete shock that one can only receive after losing a child for an entire year.
“However, after that yearlong depression, we decided it was time to move on, and the best way to do that, we figured, was to have another daughter. So, two years later, we had another child.”
“Yeah, you had me,” said Ron. “But wait… I’m not a girl!” Mrs. Weasley gave a small chuckle.
“I know that, Ron, and that’s the reason why we didn’t want to tell you. We didn’t want you to think that you were a failure to us: that you should have been a girl, but you weren’t.  Now, since  you  didn’t know, we decided  it  would be  best  if  the  others  didn’t either, so they didn’t go about flaunting their superior knowledge to you. Right now is the first time I have told any one of you kids about Jamie.”
“But  what  about  Bill,  Charlie,  and  Percy,”  said  Ron,  sounding  almost  a  little annoyed. “Shouldn’t they have some memory of Jamie?”
“Oh, they remember her alright,” said Mrs. Weasley, rocking in her chair. “But, they don’t remember her as their sister. After just a few talks, and whenever the question came up, I convinced them that she was simply a childhood friend who moved away while they were little.
“Ah, how I wish I had old you all this before!” she exclaimed once again. “But, I just didn’t want you or even Ginny for that matter to think you were merely replacements, and inferior to the first child…. I’m sorry!”
Ron looked at his mother  for  a second, she  appeared to  be ready to  burst  into
 
tears: both from telling the story, reminding herself of the heartbreak, and for love of her son.  Then, Ron  just  walked up to  his  mother,  and gave her  a  massive  hug, all  the  way around her.
“It’s okay mom,” he said. “Just… don’t ever do it again!”
“Oh believe me, I won’t,” she said, standing up after their hug was over. “Now, if you’ll please, don’t tell the story to any of your brothers or sisters  just yet. I want to be the one to tell them if it ever comes up again, not you.”
“Alright mom,” said Ron, watching her walk back to the kitchen and return to her cooking work.
“Well,” said Harry, breaking his silence, “that was a very dramatic moment.”
“Extremely,” said Ron, returning to the shelves full of albums.
“So… somewhere… out there… you have a sister,” said Harry.
“Eh, I doubt it. I mean, what are the odds that she’s still  alive? Slim to  none I’d
 
say.”

 


“Perhaps…” said Harry, reaching up for another book. Then, when he opened this
 
one, hundreds of small cards fell  out all over the floor, creating a small, paper pool. “Hey Ron! I think I found your dad’s stash of cards!” Ron looked down at the ever growing pile on the floor and grinned.
“Good  job  there  Harry!” he  said,  tapping the  pile  of  cards  with  his  wand, and making them all teleport inside a small sac. “Now we can really start to have some fun!”

Harry stayed at the Weasley residence for most of the summer, even celebrated his birthday there. Even though it was just Ron, himself, and Mrs. Weasley there the entire time  during  the  day,  all  of  that  changed  at  night  when  dinner  was  ready.  All  of  the Weasleys,  except  for  sometimes  Charlie,  and occasionally Bill,  came  home  at night to partake in the massive feasts that Mrs. Weasley always had ready. All eight of them, Harry, Ron, Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Fred, George, Bill, and Ginny, crowded the table and laughed the entire time, due to Fred and George’s wacky inventions.
It was during those few funny moments that Harry saw Ginny, for  the only time during  the  entire  meal,  say  something  (though  he  wasn’t  sure  if  laughing  would  be considered talking). She kept to herself most of the time, and Harry wondered if that was because  she  still  had a small  crush on  him, or  if  it  was because  of  her  new boyfriend: Draco.
Either way, Harry enjoyed spending time there, and his only low point throughout the rest of his summer was when Dumbledore sent him an owl in reply to his letter:


Dear Harry,

I would have to say, I am fine as well. I always love summer, don’t you? Even the worst days are the best… I’m so happy I decided to lengthen it a week.

As for  your  question,  I am sorry  to  say no. Dudley cannot  come  to  Hogwarts. Despite the fact that he has the talent and the desire, he simply is unable to come. I’m not sure  if  you have learned about it in school  yet, but there  is  such a thing called ‘magical ripeness’. That is, the longer a wizard or witch waits to perform his or her first actual spell
 
with a wand, and the more powerful the first spell that is used, the greater that wizard or witch will be.

Now, Dudley has never performed  any magic with a wand, and he is  five years over  the  usually  starting  age  for  school.  This  means,  he  will  be  at  least  five  times  as powerful  as  an  average  wizard.  We  cannot  take  the  chance  of  having  this  extremely powerful wizard go over to Voldemort’s side. He would be especially easily corrupted and tempted, having had so little experience in the wizarding world.


Once again, I am deeply sorry, but in this day and age, we cannot take the chance.

Sincerely, Albus Dumbledore Headmaster

Harry let  the letter  droop down. So… Dudley wouldn’t be coming to  Hogwarts with  him,  Ron  and  Hermione….  He  had  been  so  sure  that  he  would  be  able  to!  He shouldn’t have gotten his and Dudley’s hopes up so high.
“Hey Harry!” called Ron from the other end of the room. “Want to play a game?” He held up two decks of cards and shook them with a smile on his face.
“Sure,” said Harry, trying to cheer up. He walked over to Ron, and grabbed one of the decks right out of his hand. “Let’s go!”
Harry had gotten extremely good at the card game, which he learned was called Wizard  Duel,  and  had  even  beaten  Ron  a  few  times.  Fred,  George,  Charlie  or  Bill sometimes  even joined in on the fun, creating multiplayer games which were even more exciting than one on one. The only bad part about the game, as Harry was concerned, was that the cards just… stayed cards. If only they could become real….
“Hey you two!” said Fred, during one of those such games. “You still haven’t seen the business yet!”
“Yeah, you have to see it,” said George, drawing his card.
“What business?” asked Harry, playing a Killing Curse on Bill’s dragon.
“Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes of course!” said Fred, countering Harry’s curse.
“Oh yeah…” groaned Ron, having his elf attacked by the dragon.
“Well, we’ll see  it when we go to Diagon Alley for  supplies for  this year,” said
Harry, using a Pin Spell on Fred’s Balloon-Beast.
“Hey! You popped him!” laughed Fred, throwing his beaten card into the air.

Before  Harry knew it, his summer  was practically over. There was only a week left of school, and Harry was feeling a little guilty for not visiting Dudley again. He had broken the sad news to him that he would not be coming to Hogwarts through a letter, and he had taken it fairly well. Though slightly disappointed, Dudley had not ever really known much about the wizarding world, so he didn’t have much to not look forward to.
Even though Dudley didn’t, Harry and Ron needed new school  supplies, and the only place to go for them was Diagon Alley. Harry especially needed them, seeing as he
 
had left them all at the Dursley’s, and did not feel like seeing Dudley right now. So, the day before the beginning of the new year, the two of them headed there with lists in their hands of what they would need.
“Let’s see here…” said Ron, taking out his supply list. Harry looked at his.


Sixth-Year Students Will Require:


The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 6
By Miranda Goshawk

Creatures. Creatures! CREATURES! By Ilike Topet


What Makes Good Wizards Go Bad
By Gulden Armur II


Changing Others: How To Not Jump Back In Surprise
By Shanjez Toncorps Magical Origins By Ekstremle Uld

“Hmm, there’s not as many books on this year’s list as there were on last year’s,” observed Harry, eyeing it  again. “Looks like  I’ll be making up for  that by buying a new cauldron, quills, parchment…”
“Yeah, well, this year we mostly use the same ones we used last year,” said Ron, folding up his list and putting it in his pocket. Harry trusted him, he had already had five other  brothers  go  through  the  system.  If  anyone  knew  more  about  what  to  expect  at Hogwarts, it was Ron.
The two of them purchased their books as fast as they could, wanting to try and get to Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes as soon as possible. Even Ron looked a little excited at the thought of it.
Since the two of  them had been to  Diagon Alley so  many times  before, it only took them a few minutes to acquire everything they needed: books, quills, ink, parchment, and some new dress robes, just slightly larger sizes of what they already had. They stuffed all of their purchases into magical bags that stayed their same, small size no matter how much stuff you put inside it, and ran over to Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes.
“Um… Ron…” said Harry. “Where exactly is it?”
“I’m  not  really  sure,”  said  Ron,  looking  around.  “Fred  and  George  said  ‘you couldn’t miss  it’, so  it has to  be around here somewhere.” The two of  them, hands over their eyes, scanned the area, looking for any sign of the place. All Harry could see, though, were several small shops, and one rather distinct yellow building….
“Hey Ron!” yelled  Harry, pointing at the  very tall  yellow building. “Is that it?”
“Let’s go see,” he said. The two of  them ran over to  the building, and looked up at it in awe. It was the tallest structure Harry had ever seen, and it was entirely yellow. It looked
 
so fluffy and nice too, it was like a massive marshmallow. And, right above the giant glass door at the bottom of the cylindrical building, there were the words: “Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes, Inc.” in bright, multicolored letters. Through the windows that were all around the building, Harry saw many people inside, purchasing and trying out the items. It looked extremely busy.
Harry and Ron walked up to  the  front  door,  and it  opened for  them, just  like  a Muggle store’s would. But, after that, something happened that definitely did not occur at Muggle shops. Below Harry and Ron’s feet, there was a sudden burst of air that shot them right up to the ceiling.
“AAAHHH!”  both  of  them  yelled.  They  were  now  hovering  with  their  heads touching  the  ceiling.  Then, by some  invisible  force,  the  two  of  them  were  turned  one hundred  and  eighty  degrees  so  that  their  feet  were  on  the  ceiling  now,  or  what  was previously the ceiling anyway. Harry expected to fell all the blood rushing to his head, but he felt perfectly fine, as if he was standing right-side up.
“Whoa, what’s going on?” asked Ron, rubbing his head.
“I think that… this room is upside down,” said Harry, looking around. However, the  room  looked  perfectly  normal.  In fact,  there  were  others  in  the  room  in  the  same position  that  Harry  and  Ron  were,  buying  or  testing  products,  and  acting  as  if  it  was perfectly normal to be upside down.
“This  must  be  just  another  one  of  Fred  and  George’s  little  tricks,  to  try  and enhance their customer’s experience at their shop,” said Ron, looking around. “Man, look at all this stuff!”
Now that Harry had gotten over the initial shock of begin flipped, he took a look at all the items available. The walls were covered in hundreds of  colored boxes, ranging from the size of a small nut to the size of cars! Scattered among those boxes were also tricks and toys that were not packages, just out for people to sample, and many were doing just that. Among them, Harry saw a red-haired young man with a clipboard, checking off and writing many things. Harry immediately recognized him as Percy.
“Hello  there  Percy!” yelled  Harry, waving his  hand. Percy  looked  up from  his work, and waved to the two of them.
“Hey  there  Harry!  Ron,  you’ve  finally  come  to  see  it!  Isn’t  this  place  great? Though I don’t quite agree with some of Fred and George’s little  ideas, like flipping the customers upside down when they enter, a few compromises makes everything worth it.”
“Makes it all worth what?” asked Harry.
“Makes it all worth having the biggest business in all of Diagon Alley!” exclaimed Percy, throwing his arms into the air, and giving a giant grin. “Just this past week, we’ve quadrupled our  sales,  and in  the  past  month,  we’ve made  more  money  than the  rest  of Diagon Alley put together!” He had a superior-looking expression  on his face,  and was breathing a little hard too.
“Um… that’s great Percy…” said Harry. “But… where are Fred and George?”
“Oh, they’re working the cash register,” said Percy, returning to his work. Harry and Ron slowly backed away from Percy, and bumped right into the check-out desk. The two  of   them   turned  around,  and  saw  Fred  and  George,   working  tirelessly,   taking transactions.  The line  for  the  check-out  was  so  long  it  went  up to  the  next  floor,  and money, receipts, and even a few items were flying everywhere. Fred and George, however,
 
looked happier than Harry had ever seen them.
“Hey  there  Fred!  George!”  yelled  Harry  above  the  excited  talk  of   all  the customers. The twins turned and smiled at Harry for a second, and then immediately went back to their work of checking people out.
“Can’t you two take a break for a second?” asked Ron.
“We are taking a break,” came a voice from behind them. Harry and Ron turned around, and saw the two of them standing right there, drinking some sort of wizard soda.
Harry felt extremely confused.
“But- you were  just…  the  cash  register,”  he  mumbled out,  pointing in  random directions. Fred and George looked at him for a second, then suddenly appeared as though they understood what he was trying to say.
“Oh  them?”  asked  George,  pointing  to  the  people  that  looked  exactly  like themselves behind the desk. “Yeah, they’re our clones. We alternate shifts… it works out well.”
“Clones?”   asked   Harry,   sounding  very   surprised.   Last   year,   he,   Ron,   and
Hermione had had some very nasty incidents with clones. “Isn’t that a little… bad?” Fred shook his head.
“Nah, not really. They’re just like regular workers, only they look like us. We pay them, give them a place to live… it works out well.”
“Heh, you’re lucky that it worked out good for  you because when me and Harry here  tried  to  clone-”  said  Ron,  before  Harry  jabbed  him  in  the  side  with  his  elbow, signaling to him to stop.
“That’s quite enough, Ron,” he said through gritted teeth.
“Hey, how would you like to  have the grand tour  of  this  place?” asked George.
“It’s really all quite amazing!”
“Sure!” said Harry and Ron together, eager to see what inventions the two of them had cooked up.

Fred and George showed them the entire store, and it was even more amazing than Harry had imagined it would be. Each room, like the upside-down entrance, had some sort of  special feature. Once of  them had a floor  mad out of  a bouncy, jell-o like substance; another  one’s  ground was like  that  of  a game  board,  and you  could  only  move  certain spaces depending on the roll of a dice, and occasionally even had to go backwards due to landing on  certain  areas;  another  room  had fluffy  balls  shoot  out  in  every  conceivable direction  every few seconds,  and yet  another  was a zero-gravity room,  one  that people floated around in. The last room on the agenda was the dormitory. Inside it, there were six beds (one for Fred and George, their clones, Ginny, and Percy). However, the beds liked to  changed places,  colors,  and stuffings  every day, so  you never  slept  in  the  same  one twice.
And, of  course,  each  room  was packed  with goodies.  There  were  some  of  the things that Harry had seen Fred and George use last year, but there  were also  an almost uncountable number of new inventions. There was Giant Gum, a candy that made you grow as high as the ceiling of a room, and the opposite, Shrink Sugar, that made you become the size of an ant. There were Ants-In-Your-Pants-Plants, vegetables that when eaten gave that very unpleasant sensation  to  the  consumer.  There  was some  Gassy Guzzler, a soda that
 
made  you  float  about  for  several  minutes,  and Harry’s  favorite,  Itchy  Exploders:  little bombs that created a gas when set off that made everyone who breathed it in feel itchy all over, and make them scratch for up to ten hours. There were hundreds of other items to see, but Fred and George didn’t have time to show everything.
“Yeah, we’ve got a pretty good system going on here,” said Fred, returning to the first floor. “Me and George run the register and come up with ideas for new stuff when it’s not our shift, and Percy finds ways to market the new inventions and keeps inventory. He also takes polls to see what items are popular and which aren’t.”
“Sounds like you guys have it pretty easy,” said Ron. “Run the register for a few hours, then come up with jokes for the rest of the day.”
“It’s actually a little  harder  than that,” said George.  “We have to  constantly be coming up with new ideas, people can’t be playing the same jokes on each other forever, and we can’t simply improve on old ideas anymore, we need completely new inventions. It’s very difficult.”
“Yeah, I’m sure…” said Ron sarcastically, rolling his  eyes.  Just  then, Fred and
George’s exhausted clones came up to them and told them it was time for their shift.
“Alright, we’ll see you later you two,” said Fred, heading to the register.
“Yeah,” said George, “but remember Harry! All of this… none of it would be here if it wasn’t for you!”
“Well… I’m happy to see you have put the money to good use… very good use,” said Harry, taking another look at the place. “It’s doing much more here than it would have ever done sitting in my account.”
“Thanks  again  Harry!”  the  two  of  them  yelled,  returning  to  their  work.  Harry suddenly felt a tap on his shoulder. He turned around, and saw Ron behind him, eyes-wide, and mouth open.
“What is it?” asked Harry. Ron didn’t say anything, just merely pointed to the wall right  in  front  of  them. Harry looked  at it  and fell  into  just  as  much shock  as  Ron did. Before them, there was an entire wall… full of packs of Wizard Duel cards. Literally, the entire wall was filled with small packs of cards that glittered in the sunlight as if they were gold. Each wrapper had a different image on it, depicting one of the millions of cards. It was truly a sight to behold.
Harry  and Ron  flew  over  to  that  almost-sacred  wall,  and immediately  grabbed several packs off of it as if they were treasure. On the cover of each pack, it said that there were sixteen additional cards: one rare, five uncommons, and ten commons. After taking about ten packs (he would have bought more, but they were seven sickles each, and Harry didn’t have too much money with him) Harry quickly ran up to the above floor  and bought a few Itchy Exploders… he just couldn’t resist the thought of using one on Malfoy.
The two of them, hands bulging with goods, got in the quickly-moving line, and it was soon their turn.
“Hey! Didn’t expect to see you this soon!” said Fred, grabbing their packs.
“I didn’t know you guys sold cards here!” exclaimed Ron.
“Oh yeah, they’re our best selling items,” said George, adding up their total. “We have to get new shipments every night… they go like crazy!”
“Well,  I’m  proud  to  say  that  we’re  part  of  those  crazy  people,”  smiled  Ron, handing Fred exact change for  his cards. Harry did the same. The both of  them grabbed
 
their stuff, and headed to the exit door.
“Hey!” yelled George. “You two can just use Floo Powder to get out of here! The fireplace is right to your left!”
“Yeah, that’d be a good idea,” said Ron, stuffing his packs into his Never-Growing Bag. “Even those these bags don’t get bigger, they certainly get heavier, and I don’t want to have to carry them all the way back home.” Harry agreed, and put the packs into his bag and the Itchy Exploders into his pocket.
The two of them walked over to the fireplace, Ron reached into his pocket, took out some  Floo  Powder, and threw it in, causing the flames  to  turn from  a dark red to  a bright green. He stepped right up to the fire.
“The Burrow!” he yelled, right before  disappearing into  the flames. Now it  was Harry’s turn. He stepped up, and reached into his pocket for some powder. But, just as he reached in, he accidentally took out one of  the Itchy Exploders, and it fell  to  the floor, causing a large, green cloud of pure itchiness to appear. The effect was instant, and Harry felt as though mosquitoes were biting him all over… he couldn’t stop scratching!
But,  he  had  to  concentrate  on  getting  the  Floo  Powder.  While  he  scratched himself  with one  arm, he reached into  his pocket  with the other, and grabbed out some powder. He quickly threw it into the flames.
“Th- the bur… ack! It itches! Oh man… the b- Burrow!” gasped Harry, jumping right into the fire. The entire world around Harry turned black, and began spinning rapidly. Faster and faster… until Harry shot right out of the remote fireplace.
“Ron!” groaned Harry, still itching all over. “Where are you?” Harry took a closer look  around, and saw that he was definitely  not  in the  Burrow. Everywhere  surrounding him, there were dark and decrepit shelves, contained some of the most horrific items that Harry had ever  seen:  skulls  with the  eyes  still  in them, hands that had hands, and many assorted items in jars of water… or at least what Harry thought was water. Harry assumed he must have accidentally arrived at some  sort  of  store,  but it looked much more  like a tomb.
Suddenly, Harry heard a footstep and a loud creak in the floor. He immediately tried to forget about his itchiness and took out his wand. Who else could be here? Could this be a trap? Another creak in the floor echoed throughout the room.
“Who’s there?” asked Harry, walking around one of the dusty shelves. A few feet in from of him, there were a figure, hidden in the dark shadows of the store.
“Who are you?” demanded Harry.
“Finally…” hissed the figure. His voice was deep and dark, just like the store.
“Finally? Finally what?” asked Harry. This had to  be one  of  Voldemort’s  traps! How could he have been so stupid as to let an Itchy Exploder fall on the floor?
“FINALLY!” yelled the figure. Harry had no time to react, the figure just jumped right at him, and pinned him to the floor.
 
Chapter 4- The Ring

“Ow! Get  off  me!”  yelled  Harry  at  whatever  had  jumped  on  him.  Drool  was coming down from his attacker’s mouth and splashing all over Harry. He was acting like a dog that hadn’t seen his owner in decades. It finally dawned on Harry that this was not one of Voldemort’s minions. A Death Eater would not pounce on his target, but use some sort of spell. This was just a crazy old man.
“Finally,” he yelled again. This time, Harry got a good look at him, and there was only  one  word to  describe  him:  hideous  (hih-day-us).  He  only  had one  eye,  and it  was three times the normal size, with veins popping out all over it. His face was just a sea of wrinkles, and it looked like his nose and mouth were upside down. “Finally!”
“Finally? Finally what?” asked Harry, trying to push the guy off of him.
“Finally!” he thundered, jumping off of Harry and throwing his hands into the air.
“A customer!” He brought his arms down, and began tapping his fingers  together  with a menacing look.
“Um… yeah,” said Harry, just  relieved to  not  have to  deal  with a Death Eater.
“Where am I anyway?”
“You are in The Itchy Man’s Burrow, the greatest shop in all of Knockturn Alley!” the old man exclaimed. He suddenly spun around, giggled quietly, and walked behind an ancient cash register. He put his elbows down on the counter, and rested his head on top of his bandaged and mangled hands. “Now… what can I interest you in?”
Harry sighed; he didn’t want to make the man feel  bad, but there was nothing in the shop that Harry was even slightly interested in. In fact, most of the items made Harry feel as though he was going to throw up.
“Um… I’m sorry, but there’s really nothing-” said Harry slowly before  the man interrupted him. He glared at him with his one massive eye that had a distinct twinkle to it, and suddenly pointed to a small and cobweb-covered sign above him. Written in dark red ink,  that  Harry  thought  could  have  been  blood,  were  the  words:  “You  enter,  you  buy something,  lest  you  die.”  Harry  swallowed  hard.  Even though  the  man  looked  old  and weak, he probably knew a few magical tricks.
“Yes, you see,” hissed the man, “if you leave without something from my store in your hands, you will explode. I’ve enchanted all of the exits, so don’t even try.”
“Well,  I can  see  why this  place  is  so  popular,” said  Harry  to  himself,  looking around for a cheap and non-disgusting item that he could quickly buy. Harry looked behind the register, and saw an assortment of  different jewelry. Maybe he could buy something for  Cho.  Quickly  looking  at  the  selection  of  different  earrings,  necklaces,  bracelets, and… rings. Those seemed to be the greatest of all the jewelry available, and Harry took a closer look at them.
There were at least a hundred rings pinned to the wall, each with its own unique Stone  and symbol,  though they were  all  almost  exactly  the  same  size  and shape. There were gold rings with ruby phoenixes, there were jade rings with crystal stars. All of them looked incredibly expensive, and Harry only had a galleon and a few sickles left after his spree at Fred and George’s store.
Just then, Harry’s attention turned to a single ring. It was in the very bottom, right hand corner, and it had a single cobweb over it, as if the spider were trying to hide it from
 
view more than it was already. From the looks of it, this one didn’t appear too expensive, with its rather dull ring and not very shiny Stone.
“How much for  that one?” asked Harry, pointing to the ring and trying to sound casual.  The  tattered  man  looked  at  where  Harry’s  finger  was  indicating,  and reached  a bandaged hand over to it. He brushed away the cobweb, and blew the dust off  of it as he brought it forth. He stuck out his bottom lip, rocked his head from side to side, trying to get a good estimate.
“How much ya got?” he asked. Harry took out his galleon and three sickles, and the man quickly snatched them away. “Well what do you know? That’s exactly how much it costs!” He gave a toothless grin, and popped the ring into Harry’s hand.
Then, just as the ring touched Harry’s palm, he suddenly felt a power rush through him. He felt a surge of energy and excitement flow through his bloodstream, and all the way up to his brain, electrifying his body all the way. Harry quickly slipped the ring onto his finger. He brushed it off a bit more, and realized that the dull Stone was actually carved into the shape of a skull with one crystal eye and one ruby eye. Now, in fact, the skull was no longer a dull gray, but a brilliant black that shone like the darkest Stone. The powerful feeling  that Harry was experiencing only  increased  while  the  ring was on  his  finger…. Maybe he wouldn’t give the ring to Cho after all, he smiled to himself.
“Will that be all?” grinned the man.
“Well, seeing as you did take all of my money…” said Harry.
“Ah yes, I forgot about that,” he said. “You can leave now… you won’t explode.”
“Alright,” said Harry, walking towards the door. “Oh, and thanks for the ring.”
“No problem,” coughed the man, heaving something large and disgusting out of his mouth just when Harry opened the door and left the store. When Harry stepped outside of the place, and saw that he was still in one piece, he took a look around. Though he had been to  Knockturn Alley before,  he had never been in this part of  it. None of  the other stores in the area looked any better than the one he had just been in; all of them appeared as though just one good wind could make them fall over. Even the sky looked decrepit in this area: it was dark and gray, and the air felt heavier and rusty. It was nothing like Diagon Alley.
Now Harry had to find a way out of this place. He didn’t want to go back into The Itchy Man’s Burrow, nor did he desire to go into any of the other stores. He had to find a fireplace to Floo from that would allow him to return to the Weasley’s. All Harry had to do was turn his head slightly to the side, and his prayers were answered.
It was like a Muggle phone booth, only much larger, and with a fireplace inside; a Floo  Station. Harry ran over to  it, and entered into it. It felt  extremely calm and serene inside, the crackle of  the fire  and the silence  from the horrible outside made for  a very nice environment. There was even, attached to the side of one of the walls, a Floo Powder dispenser.
“I guess  a lot  of  people  must  accidentally  come  here,”  said  Harry  to  himself, wondering why there would be a Floo station in the middle of Knockturn Alley.
“Maybe the store owners purposely name their business closely to other popular landmarks,” shrugged Harry, throwing some powder into the flames. “The Burrow!” Harry jumped into the flames and once again the world turned black and spun around quickly. A second  later,  Harry appeared right  in the  Weasley’s  house,  before  a distressed  looking
 
Mrs. Weasley, and a worried Ron.
“Where have you been?” demanded Mrs. Weasley, jumping at Harry, and putting her hands on his shoulders.
“Yeah, I was beginning to  think you were another  one  of  my missing sisters  or something,” grinned Ron. Mrs. Weasley, not turning away from Harry, whacked Ron on the head.
“Where have you been?” she asked again.
“I accidentally Flooed to Knockturn Alley,” groaned Harry.
“Again?” said Mrs. Weasley and Ron together
“Yeah,” grimaced Harry… he really had to stop doing that. It was the second time in… well, four years. His track record wasn’t that bad.
“Are you alright, Harry?” asked Mrs.  Weasley, trying to  sound comforting, but not overly caring. She didn’t want Harry to  think as though she were treating him like a baby.
 


fact.”



 
“Yeah, I’m fine,” he smiled, then, rubbing his ring, “Yeah, I feel better than ever in


“Well good,” said Ron. “I guess you didn’t have to go in the really bad stores.”
“It appears as though you haven’t been traumatized too badly,” said Mrs. Weasley,
 
eyeing Harry, just to be sure. “So, I don’t think you’ll object to me telling you that you will still have to go to school tomorrow. With that in mind, I think you two should think about heading to bed. It is almost midnight anyway!”
“Yeah, I suppose you’re right mom,” yawned Ron. He and Harry walked over to the stairs that were more tiring to climb than an entire  mountain. Harry had not realized how exhausted he actually was. He and Ron quickly changed into their night clothes while Harry told Ron of his interesting time at Knockturn Alley.
“He  really  wouldn’t  let  you  leave  until  you  bought  something?”  asked  Ron  in surprise, just before he climbed into his bed.
“Yeah, so I finally decided on this ring,” said Harry, showing it to Ron.
“Nice,” said Ron, nodding his head. “But, aren’t you going to  take it off  before you go to bed?”
Harry looked at his ring… it was so beautiful…. He rubbed it with the tip of his finger, and watched the skull and diamonds shine. A small surge of excitement and energy flowed through him. Harry took a deep breath, feeling full of life.
“No,” he said finally, climbing under the covers. “No, I don’t think I’ll take it off.”

“Get up you two! Get up!” came the voice of Mrs. Weasley what felt like only a few seconds after Harry had placed his head down on the pillow. “Come on! The train is leaving in an hour, and you want to have time to get ready! Oh, and Harry, a letter came for you.”
This comment made Harry jump out of bed and immediately get dressed. He ran downstairs, and asked Mrs. Weasley where his letter  was. She gave it to  him, and Harry was surprised that it had a Hogwarts seal on it. What was the school  doing sending him letters an hour before the new year started? Harry ripped it open, and read:


Dear Harry,
 

After  the  Sorting  Ceremony,  I  need  you  to  come  up  to  my  office.  I  have something for you. The password is ‘monkey cakes’.

Sincerely, Albus Dumbledore Headmaster

“What could it be?” wondered Harry, biting on a piece of toast that Mrs. Weasley had prepared for the two of them… but wait!
“Mrs.  Weasley,”  asked  Harry,  suddenly  realizing  something,  “how  is  Ginny coming to Hogwarts? I mean, she’s spent most of the summer at Fred and George’s shop.”
“And they’re  bringing her  to  the  Platform,” responded Mrs.  Weasley. “Both of them  have very nice  brooms  to  fly  over  with. I guess  they’ll  be  coming over  about the same time we are. Which, by the way, would be much improved if you (she pointed to Ron who had just come down the stairs) hurried up in waking.”
“Yeah, yeah…” yawned Ron, grabbing some breakfast and quickly eating it. “Let’s just get this year started already. Are we leaving soon?”
“Just  as  soon  as  his  majesty  is  done  with  his  breakfast,”  said  Mrs.  Weasley sarcastically, bowing to Ron. He just rolled his eyes and continued eating. It wasn’t long, though, before they were out the door and at Platform 9 ¾.
“Hey there Harry!” came a voice from not to far away. Harry looked over and saw
Fred and George waving to him. He and Ron ran over to them.
“Hey there!” yelled Ron. “Did you bring Ginny?”
“Yup, she’s already gone through,” said George. Fred sighed.
“Kind of sad… this is the first year we haven’t gone through this barrier,” he said.
“I almost wish I was going back…” He put a smile on. “Almost….”
“Yeah, whatever,” said Ron, running through the supposedly solid brick wall that led to the train.
“See you Fred! George!” yelled Harry, running after  Ron head first  into the not very brick wall. Just  like  traveling with Floo  Powder, the entire  world turned black, but only for a second, and the next thing Harry knew, he was standing amidst hundreds of other students, anxious to get on the train. He quickly found Ron among them and they walked on board together, into their usual compartment. It was very nice and relaxing… this was one of the first times they weren’t late or rushing to get on the train.
A few minutes later, after sitting there and chatting for a while, Harry felt his ring get a little warm, as if he were holding it close to a fire. Harry looked over at it, and saw that it was glowing a little yellow too….
Suddenly, Harry’s thinking was broken by the compartment door opening, and his other best friend, Hermione Granger, stepping in. She walked right on in and sat down next to Ron.
“Why hello, Ron,” she smiled, giving him a small kiss. “It’s been nice talking to you.” Harry raised an eyebrow.
“We’ve been talking through letters all summer,” explained Ron, blushing a little.
 
“Oh really?” asked Harry, crossing his arms. “I don’t remember seeing you write.”
“Well, I mostly did it at night…”
“Even then I didn’t-”
“After I saw you had gone to sleep.”
“Ah ha,” said Harry. “I see.”
“And it wasn’t only letters he sent to me during the summer,” smiled Hermione.
“Ron  also  sent  me  this.”  She  pushed  out  her  arm,  and  lifted  up  her  sleeve.  Revealed underneath was the  most  beautiful  bracelet  Harry had ever  seen  in his  entire  life.  Even from just the little light coming in from the window in the side of the compartment, the bracelet shone bright like the sun… brighter even.
“Wow, where did you ever get that Ron?” asked Harry, in awe.
“On our vacation in Egypt,” said Ron. “I actually found it in one of the pyramids we went to. I‘ve just been saving it in my desk for the right occasion… or person.”
“You didn’t steal it? Did you?” asked Harry as the train started moving.
“Well,  not  really,” said  Ron.  “It’s kind of  funny actually, the  bracelet  was just lying there in the middle of the room, as if asking to be picked up.”
“It was just… lying there?” asked Harry.
“Yep, and I just happened to be the first person to see it. I hid it from the rest of my family, who’d either want me to return it or cash it in to save for later or invest in their business.”
“Speaking  of   business,”   interjected   Hermione,   “I  heard   Weasley’s   Wizard
Wheezes is doing quite well.”
“Yeah, but me and Harry know the real secret to their success,” said Ron.
“We do?” asked Harry.
“You do?” asked Hermione.
“Yep,” said Ron, putting his hands behind his head and leaning back. “They sell Wizard  Duel  cards…  that’s  where  most  of  their  money  comes  from.”  At this  remark, Hermione rolled her eyes.
“Oh no, not that card game,” she said.
“Hey, what’s wrong with it?” asked Ron, sounding hurt. “It’s a fun game!”
“Well, I like the fact that it teaches people about that many different wizards and items that have historical value, but it’s just a silly game. I don’t know why some get so obsessed with it.”
“Hey!” said Harry. “That reminds me! I still haven’t opened my packs of cards!”
“Oh don’t tell  me you’re into  that game too?” said Hermione. Ron ignored her comment.
“Really? You didn’t? I opened mine as soon as I got home, before I realized that you weren’t there.”
“Did you get anything good?” asked Harry, looking through his bags for where he put the packs.
“Nah, not really,” said Ron. “Just a few copies of what I already have mostly.”
“Ah ha, here they are!” exclaimed Harry, bursting from his bag with the packs of cards that he bought. He threw them onto the seat next to him, and immediately grabbed the first one. On the front, there was a picture of a house elf.
“A house  elf?  Hah, don’t expect  anything good  in  that one,”  said  Ron, peering
 
over to see what Harry would get.
“Don’t judge a book by its  cover,” said Hermione, looking over at Harry’s card pack even though she said that she detested the game.
Harry quickly tore open the pack, watched the wrapper fall to the floor, and then magically disappear.
“Ahh, an Anti-pollution Charm, very nice,” commented Hermione.
Harry looked through the cards, flipping through them as fast as he could, trying to find the rare one in the pack.
“Yeah, Grindylow, another Boggart,” said Harry, naming the cards as he passed by them. “Hey a Kneazle! Speaking of which, where’s Crookshanks, Hermione? I haven’t seen her yet this year, and now that I think of it, I didn’t see her much at all last year either.”
“Oh, I put him in the storage compartment in the back,” said Hermione. “Yeah, last year, Crookshanks was gone for  most of  the day, out catching food I suppose. Only really  saw  him  during  the  late  afternoon  and evening.  But,  don’t  worry,  I’ve only  lost Crookshanks once at the beginning of the summer, I’m getting better at controlling him. Oh yeah, and-”
“Oh… my… god…” said Harry interrupting her, his eyes were wide, and he was staring at a single card in his hand, evidently the rare one.
“What is it Harry?” asked Ron and Hermione.
“Did you get a really rare one?” asked Ron.
“I got,” said Harry, turning the card around, and showing it to them, “Voldemort.”
 
Chapter 5- The Field Trip

The picture on the card was different than ay other Harry had ever seen. Instead of just  being a flat moving image, this  one  appeared almost  three  dimensional. Behind the horrible,  cloaked  figure,  there  was a  sparkling  black  background that  just  added to  the mysticness and amazement of the card.
“How could they even think of putting HIM in the game?” asked Harry, shocked.
“Well, he is a very important historical figure…” said Hermione.
“Yeah, and he’s really rare too!” drooled Ron. “Look at that! A four-star rarity! I
only thought it went up to three!”
“It doesn’t matter,” said Harry, turning the card around and glaring at the horrific image  of  Voldemort,  stroking  his  chin,  and  giving  an  occasional  laugh.  “They  still shouldn’t put him in the game.”
“Oh come on Harry,” laughed Ron. “Look at his power! It’s through the roof! You could probably win most games with just that one card!”
“I suppose so,” said Harry, tucking the Voldemort card away along with the rest of his small collection. He also put his unopened card packs in his bag too, he didn’t really feel like opening any more today.
“Well, if you don’t want him, I’ll gladly take him!” offered Ron.
“No way,” laughed Harry, feeling better.

The  rest  of  the  rather  short  trip  was  pleasant,  talking  about  their  summer vacations, and of  course, making comments  on Hermione’s bracelet. It was like nothing Harry had ever seen before.
Before long, however, the train ride came to an end and the three of them got off just in time to see their teacher and friend, Hagrid. He was at least twice as tall as any man, and five times  as wide… he almost  took  up as much space  as  all  of  the  new first  year students he was leading up to the castle.
“Hullo!” he called to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Good ter see ya, but I can’ talk now. Gotta lead these newbies up to th’ castle. I’ll see ya later!” He, along with a few new first  years, and five other  students  that did not look  anything like  first  years, but rather sixth or seventh years, made their way to the boats they would take to cross the lake and to the massive citadel.
“See you later  Hagrid!” yelled the three  of  them, making their  way to  the much more luxurious carriages that quickly took them to the front gate of Hogwarts which they quickly burst through, eager to start the new year… and to eat at the start of school feast!
Harry, Ron, and Hermione speedily found some seats at the Gryffindor table and waited anxiously as the rest of the Gryffindors filed in. The table looked especially empty, now that all the seventh years from last year were gone… then a thought suddenly came to Harry. He nudged Ron in the side.
“Hey Ron!” he whispered loudly. “We’re going to have to hold tryouts again! We need five new people for the Gryffindor Quidditch team! Fred, George, Alicia, Angelina, and Katie all graduated last year.” Ron’s eyes widened.
“Oh man,” he gasped. “I totally forgot about that.”
“Oh well, it shouldn’t be that difficult,” said Harry. Then, remembering that at the
 
end of  last year, a group of   last years’ new Gryffindors promised that they would make the team, Harry began to think that maybe it wouldn’t be as easy as he initially speculated.
“Come on Harry,” interjected Hermione, “put on your Prefect  Badge! You need to show all of the new first years where they can go if they’re lost or having trouble.” She quickly reached into her pocket, and pinned on her shiny badge, wearing it proudly.
“Ugh… the last thing I want is for  more first  years to be crawling all over me,”
groaned Harry, taking out his grimy badge and trying to clean it up a bit.
“You  should  really  take  your  Prefect  responsibilities  more  seriously,”  said Hermione severely. “I noticed that last year you never took any house points away from anyone, nor did you ever read the Prefect Guidebook, which I’m sure you must have lost by now or something.”
“Fine fine fine, “ said Harry, pinning his slightly cleaner badge on, “I’ll try to do a better job this year Miss. Hermione.” Harry tried to look as cute as he could, pretending to be a little preschooler. Ron laughed, but Hermione merely turned away.
“Shh!” she said. “The Sorting is starting!”
And so it was. The doors to the Great Hall burst open and the first years who had crossed the lake with Hagrid now walked up to the front of the room in a single straight line, led by Professor McGonagall. Once again, Harry saw that five of the new students did not look like first years at all, they looked more along the lines of Harry’s age.
“What’s up with them?” asked Ron.
“Maybe they’re  more  exchange  students  from  other  schools,  like  Tci  was last year,” suggested Hermione. Harry hadn’t thought of that, and she was probably right; they were just new students from Durmstrang.
“Well,  whoever  they  are,  they  are  definitely  cool,”  said  Ron,  eyeing them  and
 
smiling.



 


“What makes you say that?” asked Harry.
“Just look at their pockets!” pointed Ron. Harry looked over, and almost laughed
 
at the sight. The pockets of the five new students were literally overflowing with Wizard Duel cards. Every now and then, one fell on the floor, and the student who dropped it just magically brought it back up, proving that they were definitely not newcomers to the world of magic, they had had some training.
Finally, the line stopped, and professor McGonagall stepped up to the head of the room with a big sheet of parchment that had all the names of the new students on it. She also took the large, black, pointed hat off of her head, and placed it on a stool that was next to her. Harry realized that this was no ordinary hat, that was the Sorting Hat. It suddenly shot up into the air a few feet, a small hole appearing for its mouth, and started singing:

“You should listen to what I have to say, It’s different every year on this same day. You see, I am the Sorting Hat; And I will tell you where you should be at. If Gryffindor is what I bark out loud,
Then you possess a soul that is brave and proud! If Ravenclaw is what come out of my mouth, Then you are the wisest in your house.
 
If Hufflepuff is what I say, Then you are loyal, behind your friends is where you stay. If Slytherin is what I hiss, Then you are cunning, you know when something is amiss. But, who cares? Just try me on!
I’ll tell you where you belong….”

Everyone  clapped  respectfully  and  the  hat  fell  back  down  to  its  seat,  with  a slightly smug look on its face, or at least Harry thought that’s what its expression was; it’s very hard to tell with hats.
“Trenholm Archibald,” said Professor McGonagall. A quite tall boy walked up to the hat, not looking nervous at all, and threw it right on his head.
“Gryffindor!” yelled the hat, causing the Gryffindor table to clap and cheer as he walked over and sat down. The first sorting was over.
“Ai Gomon!” continued Professor  McGonagall, causing one  of  the  bigger  new students, his pockets  bulging with cards, to  walk up to  the  hat and place  it  on his head. Almost immediately, the hat yelled out his house name.
“Slytherin!”
The whole of Slytherin table applauded for their bigger new student, and Malfoy and Tci even stood up for him, welcoming him in to their clan. Harry noticed, that for the first time, Malfoy didn’t have his cronies, Crabbe and Goyle, sitting next to him. In fact, they were all the way down at the other end of the table, looking hopelessly lost.
“Oh  well,  I  guess  Malfoy  has  gotten  better  friends  now,”  thought  Harry  to himself, returning his attention to the Sorting.
Ten minutes later, Brad Cooper, Susej Tsirch, Stephen Early, and Kevin Williams were the latest Ravenclaws, Megan, Kyle, and Lydia Yasigian were the newest Hufflepuffs, and three more of the older new students (Faire Morter, Avait Malmin, and Fonce Kuroi) went  to  Slytherin  in  addition  to  Rusty  Johnson.  Gryffindor  had only  gotten  one  other besides Trenholm so far: Chad Horahoe.
“Aku Tenshi!” yelled Professor McGonagall, looking rather happy that he was the last person on the list. He was a very tall and skinny boy, with a rather pale appearance. In fact, he reminded Harry of himself a little.
Aku walked up to  the  Sorting Hat with a grin on his face.  He slowly sat  down, causing his cape to go up in the air for a second, then come back down like a bat flapping its wings. He placed the hat upon his head, and after a few seconds….
“Gryffindor!” it yelled out.
The Gryffindor table erupted into applause. They had gotten one of the older new students! Aku walked over to their table, and chose a seat right next to Harry.
“Hey there, Aku!” said Harry, trying to be friendly.
“Please, call me Ak,” he said with a wave of his hand, and a grin of his perfect and shining teeth. There was something warm and inviting about him that Harry really liked.
“Alright then… Ak,” said Harry, “I see you like the Wizard Duel card game.”
“Oh yes,” beamed Ak. “In fact, at Durmstrang, we, that is Faire, Avait, Fonce, Ai and me, started a Wizard Duel Club. We’re thinking of starting one here too!”
“Whoa! That’d be awesome!” said Ron excitedly.
 
“Oh, Ak, this is Ron, my friend,” introduced Harry.
“Nice to meet you,” said Ak.
“Likewise,” said Ron, looking more at Ak’s cards than his face.
Suddenly, their conversation was cut off by Dumbledore standing up to make the usual annual announcements, like he did every year at this time. He took a last swig of his drink, brushed off his beard, and began speaking.
“Hello  students!”  he  boomed,  his  voice  magically  magnified.  “I  am  happy  to announce, thought I am sure may of  you are not, that we are starting a new term here at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, under me, Minister Dumbledore.”
There was a bit of polite applause. Harry remembered that last year, the previous Minister  of  Magic, Cornelius Fudge, stepped down for  covering up Voldemort’s attacks due to being blackmailed. Dumbledore had been elected in his place.
“Now, for  announcements,”  he  continued.  “First  and foremost,  to  all  you  new students, the Forbidden Forest is. That is, it is forbidden to go in, no matter what, under every and all circumstances. Also, I am extending curfew by three hours, because I’m just a nice guy like that, and the Village of Hogsmeade is forbidden to all first and second year students.
“Next,  I would like  to  welcome  five  more  transfer  students  from  Durmstrang. They were  all going to  be sixth years  at their  old school,  and will remain in that grade despite their late arrival at our school. I do hope that all sixth years will give them as warm a welcome as I would like.”
“Also, while we’re working on new welcomes, I would like to introduce your new
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Quirrell!”
“He doesn’t mean…” started Ron.
“What happened to…” asked Hermione.
Harry looked up and saw the new Professor Quirrell that Mrs. Figg had told him about. In fact, even though they were identical twins, this Quirrell looked nothing like his brother. He had a big moustache and beard, and most obvious of all, did not have a massive turban either. He stood up, gave a small wave and smile, then sat down.
“Lastly, to try and cut this little speech of mine to as little time as possible, I have one final and major announcement. After the Christmas Holidays, and at the beginning of January, most of the school, that is, the second years and up, will go on a field trip to one of   the Egyptian pyramids, the Geb Pyramid. I hope that it shall be a most wonderful and educational experience.”
The Hall suddenly filled with chatter and excitement. They would be going on a magical  field  trip! The first  one  that this  set  of  students  would have ever  experienced! However, amongst the excited talk, Ron’s comment was heard by Harry.
“Field  trip?”  he  swallowed.  “They  don’t  mean  the  one  that  my  sister  never returned from… could they?” Harry didn’t know what to say. Could it possibly be to the same place?
“I… don’t know,” said Harry quietly.
“The field trip,” continued Dumbledore, trying to  keep his voice heard over the cloud of chatter that was going on, “will be paid for by the school, so none of you have to worry about giving us any money to go. With that in mind, I hope you all will sign up for it, and come. We would like everyone, who is allowed, to go with us, and we have taken many
 
precautions  this  time  to  ensure  everybody‘s safety.. Now, please, finish your meals  and end this beginning day.”
Dumbledore  sat  down, but nobody really noticed  any difference.  They were  all still talking about the field trip.
“Wow! I’ve never been to Egypt before!”
“I wonder if there’ll be any mummies.”
“I didn’t know Professor  Quirrell  had a brother….” Were  just  a few things that
Harry picked up.
“Why is  everyone so  excited about a field trip?” asked Ak. “At Durmstrang, we had them all the time! We went to Transylvania, Rome, Hungary, India, China, Japan, and more! All in the same year!”
“Well this is the first one we’ll have ever been to,” explained Harry.
“Hmm, I see. Well, it should be good,” he shrugged. “We never did go to Egypt before. Maybe it will be interesting.”
“Come on Harry!” said Hermione, pulling on his shirt. “You have to go show the new students where their dormitories are.”
“Yeah, yeah,” sighed Harry, leaving the Great Hall with a giant mass of students following behind him. He ran ahead of them all, wanting to be able to show the new kids where to go before they got lost.
“Follow me,” Harry said to them as they ran to keep up with his quick pace. They soon reached the Gryffindor room entrance that was vigilantly guarded by the portrait of the Fat Lady.
“Password?” she demanded.
“Pookong,” said Harry, causing her to  swing open and reveal to them the room. Over the summer, he along with the rest of the prefects had received letters telling them the passwords for the entire year. Harry led the two new first years to their room, relieved that there were only two of them this year. They both quickly settled into their new room, much more easily than the previous year’s had, and Harry shut the door.
“Hello Harry,” said Ak, who appeared behind him just as he closed the door.
“Ah!” gasped Harry. “You- you scared me there Ak.”
“Sorry,” he said. “But… where do I sleep?” Harry stroked his chin for a second. He Didn’t know where Ak should go. With him and the rest of the sixth years, or with the new first years?
“Well,” guessed Harry, “I suppose you can come with us. Follow me.” Harry lead him to their dormitory, opened the door, and was surprised to see that there was an extra bed in the room, just for Ak. Evidently, this was where he was supposed to be.
“Hey  Harry!”  called  Ron,  whom  Harry  wasn’t  surprised  to  see  was  already involved in a Wizard Duel card game match against Dean and Seamus. “You want to play? How about you Ak?”
“Oh no, I can’t,” said Harry, remembering the note Dumbledore had sent to him, saying that he had something for him. “I have to go see Dumbledore… I’ll be back soon.”
“Don’t worry Harry,” said Ak. “Give me your deck and I’ll play for you.”
“But, you have so many cards,” said Harry. “Why do you need my deck?”
“I… I don’t want to reveal what my cards are until the club starts,” said Ak.
“Fine,” sighed Harry, reaching into the bag in the front of  his bed that had been
 
bought up earlier for his deck of cards. He found it quickly, and threw it to Ak, running out of the room as fast as he could, not wanting to be late.
Harry shot out of the room, trying to make up for  the time he lost showing the new students around. He quickly made it out of the common room, and down to the Great Hall. From there,  it  was only a little  ways to  Dumbledore’s  office,  and Harry got there quickly.
“Monkey cakes,” gasped Harry, out of breath. The gargoyle in front of his office moved aside and Harry walked through the door and up the stairs.
“I’m sorry I’m late,” said Harry, reaching the office, “but you see I-” He suddenly stopped. Dumbledore wasn’t in the room. “Hmm, I guess I didn’t have to go that fast after all.”
Harry looked around. Even though he had been to Dumbledore’s office on many occasions, for every imaginable type of situation, even to steal a phoenix, Harry still liked to see what was in the office. There was always something new! Just then, Harry felt the same, hot sensation on his ring finger that he had felt on the train. His ring turned blue this time, and he felt as though he were being drawn towards Dumbledore’s desk.
Harry let his ring drag him, as if it were a powerful magnet. His hand was out in front of him, and it led him right towards the bottom right drawer of the desk. The ring was burning hotter now, and Harry had to resist the urge to pull it off. Harry slowly opened the drawer, wondering what he would find. The second he opened it a crack, a blue light shone right through. Harry pulled it open even more, and an explosion of blue light came out. He looked in for the source and it was… a watch.
But it wasn’t just any watch… it was the most beautiful watch Harry had ever seen in his life. It was made out of a light blue crystal all over, and the face was some sort of rainbow colored glass that was constantly swirling and changing…. Harry just had to pick it up and put it on!
He reached inside the drawer, and grabbed the watch, pulling it out. He looked at for only a second, for an instant later, a giant holographic map suddenly appeared before him, and it took him by such surprise, he dropped the watch. The map was being projected right onto  the air… from  Harry’s ring! It was a map of  the world… but with no border lines at all, just geographic features. Harry scanned it over and noticed something… there were four dots on the map: a blue one, a red one, a yellow one, and a green one. The blue, green, and yellow dots  were  both over  England…but Harry couldn’t see  exactly  where. The red one was somewhere in… Africa.
Suddenly,  Harry  heard  someone  coming  up  the  creaky  stairs…  Dumbledore! Harry quickly threw the watch back into the drawer and shut it just as fast. Just when it was out  of  sight,  the  holographic  map disappeared  and Harry  jumped  up,  trying  to  look  as though nothing out of the normal had just happened. Not even a second later, Dumbledore walked in the office.
“Hello Harry,” he said, walking in. “So sorry I’m late, just had to go over a few things with Professor Quirrell.”
“Oh… no problem,” gasped Harry, trying to put on a smile.
“Are you alright? You look as though you’ve been working rather hard. Not that I have any objections  to  that, but it‘s  not  as  if  you should have much to  do, considering school hasn‘t even started yet.”
 
“Oh no, I’m fine.”
“Alright then,” said Dumbledore, shaking his head. “Anyway, down to business. I
have another item here that was left to you.”
“From my father?” asked Harry. Dumbledore shook his head.
“No, not this. This item is from your godfather.”
“Sirius?”
“Yes,  he  is  giving  it  to  you  to  keep  the  Ministry  of  Magic  from  finding,” explained Dumbledore, opening one of his other drawers, reaching inside, and taking out a small package. He walked over to Harry and handed it to him. Harry took it, and opened it up. Inside, there was a ring… not at all like his skull one, but a clear ring that had a face carved on the translucent Stone: half human on one side, half lion on the other.
“What is it?” asked Harry.
“It is an Animagus Invisibility Ring,” said Dumbledore, sitting down in the chair before  his  desk.  “It  acts  just  like  your  Invisibility  Cloak.  Only  now,  whenever  you transform, you will become invisible if you want to. A very handy thing to have…. Though I see that you already have a ring….”
With  that,  he  jumped  up  and  walked  slowly  in  front  of  Harry.  He  bent  over slightly, and gazed at the skull ring, as if he was entranced by it somehow.
“Oh yeah…” said  Harry  quietly,  putting his  new ring  on  his  middle  finger.  He could barely even see  it was there, it was so clear. Dumbledore, however, seemed more interested  in  Harry’s  skull  ring  than  his  new  one.  It  was  odd…  very  odd  in  fact. Dumbledore was just standing there, looming over Harry and gazing at his ring, wide-eyed and practically drooling.
“Uh… I have to go now,” said Harry awkwardly. Dumbledore immediately shook his head and blinked his eyes a few times, leaving his catatonic state.
“Oh- oh yes!” he said, sitting back down, but not taking his eyes off of Harry. “Go along now, I’m sure you have more important things to do than talk to an old geezer like me.”
Harry smiled  at  Dumbledore  and walked out  of  the  room,  wondering what had made him act that way. All the way back to his common room, he went over in his mind what could have happened in Dumbledore’s office with the blue watch… what was with the map and everything? He almost walked right into the portrait of the Fat Lady, not thinking. He gave her the password, and had to work his way through a cloud of students, who Harry supposed was just gathered there to talk excitedly and anxiously about the upcoming year. When he saw what the real cause was, though, he felt a little disgusted.
“Now what cards would you like?” asked Aylar behind a table  that was covered several inches high in sickles and knuts. “Any card you want, I can give it to you.”
“I’d like a Merlin,” squeaked the kid, who looked like he was a third year.
“Coming right up!” smirked Aylar, waving his wand and causing the card to appear out of thin air, right onto the surface of the table. “That will be… seven sickles please.” The kid quickly reached into  his  pocket  and threw the  money out  on  the  table,  walking away in a blissful state. “Next!”
“Aylar!” yelled Harry. “What are you doing?”
“Oh hello  Harry,”  smiled  Aylar  as  his  next  customer  approached.  “Just  giving these kids a few cards that they have trouble getting their hands on if they only buy packs.”
 
“But Aylar… that’s counterfeiting!”
“I  guess  so…  but  who  can  tell  the  difference?”  he  shrugged,  creating  four phoenixes  for  his  customer.  Harry grabbed one  from  the  air, and took  a spare  card out from his pocket, to compare them. After a quick glance, Harry saw a big difference.
“Sorry Aylar,” grinned Harry, showing him the two cards side by side. “But, in the bottom  left  hand corner  of  the  real  card, there’s  a ‘T’. On yours, there’s  an ‘A’.” Aylar snatched the cards out of  his hand, and looked them over quickly, his eyes  darting from side to side.
“I guess the first letter of the name of the person that made the card is put there,”
said Aylar quietly, not wanting that little thing to get out.
“But look!” exclaimed  Aylar’s  customer  who was waiting for  the  phoenix  that
Harry took, and had overheard them. He took out a werewolf card from his pocket.
“Yeah… so?”
“This one’s got a ‘V’ in the corner,” he said. Then, taking out another card. “And this one’s got an ‘A’ too!”  Aylar folded his arms and put a smug look on his face.
“So, three  different  people  make the  cards, and one  of  their  name’s starts  with
‘A’, same as mine. There’s no way anyone will be able to tell the difference! Next!” Aylar gave his previous customer his phoenix, and a new student came up.
“Four Sorceror’s Stones,” he demanded, causing Harry to sigh and walk up to his dormitory. How could Aylar do something like that? Counterfeiting cards just to make a little money. Harry opened the door to his room, and saw the three boys, Seamus, Dean, and Ak, playing Wizard Duel on the floor. Harry groaned at the sight of more cards.
“Yes! I win again!” yelled Ak, throwing his hands into the air.
“That’s the sixth time in a row!” sighed Seamus, Dean, and Ron together.
“Hey Harry!” said Ak, turning around. “Your deck’s not bad!”
“Thanks, but isn’t that enough for tonight?” suggested Harry.
“Nah,” the four of them said together.
“But we could use another player…” said Dean.
“You’re right. Hey Neville!” called Seamus. Neville was back in a corner of the room, reading a book. Seamus held up his deck for him to see. “You play?”
Neville looked up, and Harry scanned him over. He appeared completely different from  last  year. If Harry didn’t know Neville  was his  name, he  would have thought they were two totally different people. Now, instead of being slightly on the large side, Neville looked stronger than the four of them put together. His hair was different too… extremely pointy. He looked more like a character from an anime cartoon than a human.
“No,” he said with a tone of superiority in his voice. “I have… things to do.”
Harry  frowned  at  him  and winced  an  eye.  He  knew that  Neville  was  probably studying the latest Dark Curses. Ever since halfway through the last year, Neville had been a Death Eater, and his new look was probably a gift from Voldemort.
“Fine,” said Seamus, shrugging and returning to the game.

They  played  another  round,  and  Ak  won,  of  course.  Ron,  Seamus  and  Dean decided that they’d been slaughtered enough for one day, and all of them chose to stop for the night, and go to bed.
Harry laid there, still slightly awake, with ideas buzzing in his head.
 
“Could this field trip be the same field trip that Jamie got lost  on…? What was the deal with the map thing in Dumbledore’s office…? What was Dobby trying to warn me about…?” After a while, however, Harry finally drifted off into a deep sleep.


“Harry…” came a voice, as if from far away.
“Mmmm…” he groaned back.
“Harry Potter…” it came again, louder.
“Yeah, what?” asked Harry groggily, opening his eyes. He was very surprised to see that he was not in bed, but rather standing up in the middle of the Gryffindor Common room. His glasses  weren’t on, so  he couldn’t see  a thing, but luckily he felt  them in his hand. Harry quickly put them on.
“Harry Potter,” hissed the voice again. This time, it was much closer, and sounded almost inhuman. Suddenly, Harry could make out where the voice was coming from, and even worse,  whose  it  was. Right  before  him,  in  the  middle  of  the  common  room,  was Voldemort himself.
 
Chapter 6- New Classes

“Hello…  Harry  Potter,”  hissed  Voldemort  again,  caressing  himself  with  his spider-like fingers. Unlike his followers, Voldemort looked no different than when Harry had  met  him  last.  Pale  and  skeleton-like  skinny  all  over,  with  snake  eyes  and  a  long, flowing, black robe and cape.
Harry didn’t have time to scream or yell. He just reached into his pocket for his wand. He quickly pulled it right out, and pointed it straight at Voldemort.
“Stupefy!” he yelled. The beam shot  right out from the tip of  his wand… but it just passed right through Voldemort, as if he were a ghost. Voldemort gave a short laugh.
“Oh Harry,” he chortled, “don’t you think I’m smarter than that? Even though my powers  are  great,  I  still  wouldn’t  risk  coming  into  Hogwarts  in  my  actual  form…  yet anyways.”
“Then how are you here?” demanded Harry, still not putting his wand down.
“This… is  a dream,” said Voldemort,  putting his hands up, and spinning around slowly. “I am not real, not even this room; which, I might add, is a very good guess at what the Gryffindor common looks like, seeing as I’ve never been in it.”
“You mean, you created this dream?”  asked Harry. Voldemort gave a smile.
“Oh yes…” he hissed. “My powers have improved so  much after  you ‘gave’ me your Order last year, that I am able to do almost anything I desire.”
“If you’re  so  powerful,  why don’t you  just  have an all  out  attack  on  Hogwarts then?” snapped Harry,  actually  curious  as  to  why. Voldemort  ignored  his  question,  and changed the subject.
“Anyway, down to business,” he murmured.
“What do you want now?”
“I have a feeling that you know what I want… Harry,” he said, smiling. Harry’s mind raced. What did he have that he could possibly want? His Animagus Invisibility Ring? No, he could probably get one of  those  from  somewhere  else.  His  other  ring, the skull one? Perhaps… but why didn’t he just ask for it now if that’s what he wanted? No, it had to be something else.
“Well, I can’t give it you if I don’t even know what it is that you want,” said Harry, trying to hide his ring.
“I have a feeling you know what it is I desire…” he repeated.
“Even if I knew what it was that you wanted,” spat Harry, “there’s no way I’d give it to you anyway!”
Voldemort shook his head.
“Well   then…   Harry   Potter,”   he   said   slowly.   “Bad  things   will   happen…” Voldemort took out his wand, and pointed it at Harry.
“Expellius!” he yelled. A wave shot out of his wand that twisted and contorted the entire  room  as  it  went  along.  The  common  room  became  like  some  sort  of  horrible attempt at an abstract painting as it began to curve, melt, fade, and become sharper all at once. As soon as it hit Harry, he fell to the ground, unconscious.


“Harry! Get up!” came Ron’s voice over him. “Breakfast’s started now, and you
 
don’t want to miss the first one of the year; that wouldn’t look too good!”
“Ugh…  what?”  groaned  Harry,  sitting  up  and  seeing  that  everyone  else  was already dressed and ready for the first actual day back. He quickly jumped out of bed and over to his trunk of clothes where he quickly picked an outfit, and threw his robes on over that. “Alright, let’s go.”
The two of them ran downstairs to the Great Hall where most of the school was already seated. Harry and Ron picked seats next to Hermione, and began eating.
“So, you two have any dreams last night?” she asked. Harry choked on his muffin from remembering his.
“Are you okay, Harry?” asked Ron.
“Yeah yeah,” he coughed, hitting his chest. “I’m fine.”
“Okay  then,”  said  Ron,  “but  no,  Hermione,  no  dreams  for  me…  a  perfectly dreamless  night.”  Harry  looked  enviously  at  his  friend.  He  hadn’t spent  the  night  with Voldemort in the common room.
“How  about  you  Harry?”  asked  Hermione.  Harry  looked  over  at  her.  Why shouldn’t he tell her? There was no reason not to. Maybe they could help him figure out what Voldemort wanted.
“Yeah, I had a dream,” said Harry. “Voldemort talked to me in the common room, and told me he wanted something from me, but he didn’t say what.” Harry looked at Ron and Hermione’s  faces,  which now contained wide eyes.  He was impressed,  though, that they didn’t flinch at him saying Voldemort’s name.
“He- he talked to you?” gasped Ron.
“In the common room?” said Hermione.
“Yeah,” said Harry, acting as if he had night time conversations with Voldemort every day of his life.
“Well, what did he say he wanted?” asked Ron.
“He didn’t really say. He only said, ‘I have a feeling you know what it is I desire.’”
“Anything else?” asked Hermione, looking serious.
“No, well, nothing else  about what he wanted. And, when I refused, he said bad things will happen then.”
“Ah, we’ve got nothing to  worry about!” said Ron, waving his arm as if  tossing Voldemort away. “As long as we’re here in Hogwarts, under Dumbledore’s constant watch, nothing could possibly happen.”
Just then, the familiar flapping of wings filled that air, and all head turned to see the owls fly in through the hole in the roof, bringing the student’s daily mail. However, no owls came through this time. Only hundreds of black crows, each with a dark letter in its claws. Indifferent  to  the  screaming going on, each  crow delivered  a single  envelope  to each student, including Harry, then quickly flew back out the way it came. Harry quickly turned it over, to see what the seal was, and felt cold all over when he saw what it was: a red skull with a green snake coming out of the mouth. That symbol could only mean one thing: recruitment notes.
“Voldemort… is sending letters… here?” gasped Ron, from under the table.
“I can’t believe Dumbledore… or anyone for that matter, would let this happen!”
said Hermione, right next to Ron. Harry was one of the few who had not hid.
“Still feel safe, Ron?” asked Harry, tearing up his letter, not even looking at it. By
 
now, all the crows had left, and the students started creeping out from their hiding spots. Teachers were coming in from preparing their first lessons to try and help out.
As  Harry  looked  around,  he  saw that  not  everyone  was  tearing  up  the  letters. Some  of  them  were  slipping them  in  their  pockets  for  later,  others  were  even reading them  now.  Harry  stared  at  the  student  body…  how  many of  them  were  already  Death Eaters?
“See Harry?” chuckled Neville,  his  letter  in hand. “We have practically already won.” Harry sneered at him.
“I don’t  see  how  anyone  could  become  a  Death  Eater,”  he  said  with  extreme
 
disgust.

 


“Actually,  it’s  quite  simple,  as  long  as  you  put  it  into  perspective,”  explained
 
Neville, putting his hands in his pocket and rocking back and forth on his feet. “Here’s a simple  analogy:  the  Dark  Arts,  and  the  Muggle  drug  companies.  Both  kill  people  for profit,  and both are  quite  successful.  At Muggle schools,  you’re taught not  to  work for them, or do it, same thing here; we have Defense Against the Dark Arts, they have health class. In the Muggle world, they have companies trying to get rid of drugs, we have Aurors. But, does any of that stop Muggle children everywhere from growing up to work for them? No, not at all. All they care about is money, and it’s the same thing here, Harry. The kids see  possibilities  and  promotion  in  the  Dark  Arts,  and  they  flock  towards  it.  There’s nothing you can do.”
Harry stood there for  a second, both amazed at Neville’s sight and intelligence, and hating  him  for  thinking  that  way. Luckily,  Neville  just  shrugged  and walked  away; Harry didn’t have anything to say to him. He instead went over to Ron and Hermione and helped them up..
“Oh Harry!” exclaimed Ron, reaching into  his  pocket  and taking out  a colorful sheet  of  parchment. “I made this  while you were  gone last  night.” Harry took the sheet from him. It was an advertisement for the Gryffindor House Quidditch Team this coming Friday.
“Looks good,” said Harry, eyeing the nice pictures and colors on it. “I’ll go hang it up on the bulletin board where everyone can see it.”
“Okay,  but  hurry  back!”  called  Hermione  after  him.  “We’re  getting  our  new schedules soon!”
“I’ll be  back in  no  time,”  said  Harry, running out  of  the  Great  Hall  and to  the magical bulletin board that wasn’t but a few feet  away. He merely touched the piece  of parchment  to  the  board and it  magically  stuck  there,  expanding slightly  so  it  would be more visible. Harry stood back to admire the work, and smiled at it.
Just then, Harry saw another kid putting an advertisement on the board. He placed it  up, and it  expanded as  well. This one,  however, looked  even nicer  than Ron’s. It was practically  a  three  dimensional  picture,  depicting  two  people  excitedly  engaged  in  a Wizard Duel game. The student who put it up turned around, and Harry saw that it was Ak. He was wearing the same outfit that Tci wore last year: a long jacket with no shirt on under it.
“Hey Ak!” yelled Harry. “So you are starting the club.”
“Oh yes,” he said, turning towards Harry. “Me and the other four are.”
“Wow, the poster looks really nice,” said Harry, nodding his head. “How did you
 
make it look so good?”
“Oh… just  a few extra little  things,” said Ak, admiring the poster  as well. “Oh! But I see  something wrong! I forgot  to  dot the ‘I’ on ‘Wizard’! Oh no…. Harry, do you have a quill I can borrow?”
“Sure,” said Harry, reaching into his pocket, grabbing one, and handing it to him.
“Here you go.”
Ak reached over for  the quill, but stopped as soon as he saw Harry’s hand. His eyes grew wide and his mouth opened slightly. He was staring at Harry’s ring.
“What- what is it?” asked Harry nervously. “Don’t you want the quill?”
“Where did you get that skull ring?” asked Ak slowly, not blinking.
“Um… Ron gave it to me,” lied Harry, not wanting to say he got it from a crazy old man back at Knockturn Alley. “He found it in a pyramid on his trip to Egypt.”
“Pyramid…” said Ak to himself, turning around, and walking away, back towards the Great Hall. “Yes….”
“Wait, Ak!” yelled Harry to him. “Don’t you want to fix the ‘I’?”
“Pyramid…” said Ak, disappearing back into  the  room.  Harry shrugged and put the quill away. He began walking back to Ron and Hermione, all the while thinking what Ak and Dumbledore knew about his ring that he didn’t.
“Hey there!” said Ron, looking grim, and bringing Harry out of  his dazed state.
“You won’t believe this. Not only do we have Potions with the Slytherins still, but we also have Defense Against the Dark Arts with them too!”
“You’re kidding!” said Harry, picking up his schedule. But, it was sadly true. Even though he and Malfoy had started getting along better, he still did not feel like spending another  entire  class  with  him  this  year.  Then,  Harry  noticed  something  else  about  his schedule.  “What’s  this?  For  the  last  period  of  the  day,  I  have  three  things:  Advanced Healing, Meteorology, and Spell Invention.”
“We have to choose which one we want,” explained Hermione.
“What, we just  go  to  the  class  of  our  choice  at the  end of  the  day?” said Ron jokingly.
“Yep,” said Hermione, taking Ron by surprise.
“But, shouldn’t they give us more  time  to  think about which class  it  is  that we want?” asked Harry.
Hermione shook her head.
“No,” she said. “It’s supposed to just be a natural choice, not something influence by our family or events that happen between when we are told that we have the choice and when it comes time to choose. It is a spur of the moment thing.”
“How do you know all that?” asked Ron, slightly amazed.
“I think we both know the answer to that,” she said.
Just  then,  the  magical  bell  rang  throughout  the  school,  signaling  the  start  of school  time.  Harry, Ron, and Hermione  strutted  off  to  Defense  Against  the  Dark Arts, their  first  class of the day. All of them were wondering how it was going to be with the Slytherins, and with their new professor. They filed into the classroom and in just a few minutes the rest of the class arrived. Surprisingly, Malfoy took a seat right next to Harry, and Crabbe and Goyle were on the other side of the room, nowhere near him. Professor Quirrell came in soon after.
 
“Hello  everyone!” he said brightly, with his beard (that looked as though it was even bigger than Hagrid’s) going all the way down to his stomach. It was a very unpleasant shade of green all over, probably from food and stuff getting caught in it as he eats. “Now, as I have learned, in your fourth year, you learned how to  deal with the Imperius Curse, then last year you learned about the Cruciatus Curse. So, this year, we will be looking at ways to protect yourselves from the final Unforgivable Curse… the Avada Kedavra Spell. But,  since  the  spell  itself  is  almost  unavoidable,  you  will  not  be  studying  on  how  to protect yourselves from actual curse, but how to protect yourself from being drawn into the Dark Side and ever having to deal with the spell in the first place. We will be learning what makes  wizards turn, and how to  stop  yourself  from  doing so…  in a nutshell,  what makes good wizards go bad…. Yeehaw!”
“I’d rather  learn  what made  your  beard grow so  big and disgusting,” whispered
Malfoy. Harry had to stifle down a laugh and he saw Ron do the same.
“Not bad Malfoy, not bad,” said Harry, commenting on his joke.
“Eh, I could do better,” he replied, cracking his knuckles.
“Hey,”  said   Harry,   feeling   as   though  this   was  actually   becoming   a   good conversation, “why aren’t you sitting with Crabbe and Goyle?”
Malfoy shrugged his shoulders.
“I guess I kind of… grew out of them,” he said. “They just got boring with their pathetic  schemes  and  constant  grunts.  We  just…  don’t  think  on  the  same  level  any longer.” Harry was liking this more and more. With Crabbe and Goyle gone, Malfoy would be desperate for some new friends… perhaps Harry could show him the light.
The rest of the class went very well. Professor Quirrell talked to them about the letters  that they all received at breakfast and how that was a perfect  way for  them to  be tempted to come over. He asked them is any of them had kept their letters, and not very surprisingly, no one  raised their  hand. Harry suspected  that many of  the Slytherins, and probably a few of the Gryffindors, had kept their letters  too, but were definitely not going to admit to it, especially to a teacher.
By the end of class, Harry and Malfoy were practically as good friends as him and Ron.  It  was a very good  feeling,  befriending one  of  your  oldest  enemies.  Malfoy  told Harry that he wished he were  a fifth  year, because  next year, the  Sixth Years  would be offering three new courses in addition to the three that they had now: Necrology, the study of  bringing people  back from  the  dead; Curses,  the  study of  new and advanced ways to bring about horror; and Time Travel, where they’d try to figure out new ways of changing past events, and seeing the future.
“How do you know all that?” asked Harry after the bell rang.
“My father told me,” said Malfoy.
“How would he know the future of Hogwarts?” asked Harry. Malfoy shrugged.
“I don’t  know,”  he  said.  “But  I  do  know  that  if  I  don’t  hurry,  I’ll  be  late  for
Transfiguration.”
“Fine, I’ll see you later Malfoy,” said Harry.
“Yeah, see you on the Quidditch field, Potter,” yelled Malfoy, walking away. “You know… Marcus Flint finally graduated last year. I wonder who the new captain will be?”
“So what’s up with you two now?” asked Ron, preventing Harry from commenting
 
on Malfoy’s statement.
“Oh, don’t worry Ron,” smiled Harry. “You’re still my best friend.”
“I  guess   having  a  new  class   with  the  Slytherins   wasn’t  so   bad  after   all,”
commented Hermione, walking along beside them. Harry happily agreed.

The  rest  of  the  classes,  while  okay,  did  not  contain  any  new  friendships  like Defense  Against the Dark Arts did. In Herbology, they started learning about not plants, but rather soil. Magical dirt that could be grown and formed to act like humans. It would not be until much later into the year that any of the students, even Neville, could make a perfect person.
Transfiguration was pretty good as well. Professor  McGonagall began teaching them how to transform each other’s certain body parts into different things. She began by making Hermione’s arms into crab claws, and then Neville’s legs into a goat’s. The class applauded and laughed at her transfigurations, but it would be a long time before  anyone would be able to do something the well.
Charms was just  as good. They began learning how to  set  magical charm traps, like  Ron  pretended he  did last  year.  There  were  hundreds  of  different  kinds:  ones  that exploded, ones that turned their victims to Stone, and ones that even made the person fall asleep. Harry couldn’t wait to begin learning some of them.
If Harry hadn’t know better, he would have though he was in the same Divination class  as last  year. Professor  Trelawney did not improve much on her syllabus from  last year, she only added that they would be using Wizard Duel cards in helping them to make some predictions. That, and only that, gave Harry hope for that class to be any good.
Care of Magical Creatures, though not as exciting as last year with the dragons, was  still  an  improvement  on  Divination.  Though  Hagrid  did  not  know  exactly  which creatures they would be studying, he did say they would be looking on an average of a new one  each week, and by the  end of  the  year, they would know almost  ever  animal in the world.  It  was  very  nice  for  once  to  not  have  Malfoy  criticizing  Hagrid  every  second, poking fun at him for everything he did. On the contrary, he talked to Harry most of the time,  chatting  about  Quidditch  or  whatever.  Malfoy  was  quickly  becoming  one  of  the group… if only he wasn’t in Slytherin.
In Potions, everyone’s favorite  teacher, Professor  Snape was back. Even before he  started  telling  them  what the  were  going to  do  during the  year,  Gryffindor  had lost twenty points, Dean had an F for  the  semester,  and Lavender ran out  crying. Ahh… the teacher they all knew and loved was back.
Even with Professor  Snape back, Potions did not even begin to compare to how bad History of Magic was. Even Professor  Binns reading them the outline of the year was enough to make a dead person kill over again with boredom. Halfway into the class, Harry fell asleep, and did not know what they were going to do all year. Oh well, his next major test wasn’t until next year’s N.E.W.T.s anyway.
Now, the  thing that Harry, along with the  rest  of  the  Sixth Years,  was looking forward to  the  most  came…  the  time  for  them  to  choose  their  ‘bonus’ class.  Ron  and Harry quickly consulted with Hermione on which one was the best.
“Well, Advanced Healing is  pretty good if  you plan on going into some  sort  of medicinal position, like a doctor or something. Meteorology is for those who want to go
 
into serious fighting, you learn how to make storms and tornadoes appear out of nowhere. And, if  you  don’t  fit  into  either  of  those  categories,  like  me,  Spell  Invention.  You do exactly what the class name is… invent spells.”
“Really?” asked Ron, sounding amazed. “You can make your own spells?”
“Yeah, but it’s not as easy as it sounds,” said Hermione. “They recommend having taken  Arithmancy; you’ll  need  it  to  understand  the  code  behind  it.  MMSC,  or  Majik’s Magical  Spell  Code,  the  code  for  making  spells  is  quite  similar  to  Muggle  computer programs. That little second year, Akshay, would be good at it.”
“So you’re  taking Spell  Invention, Hermione?” asked Ron, completely  ignoring everything she had just said.
“Yes, but that doesn’t mean-”
“Well then I’ll take it too,” announced Ron, not allowing her to finish. Hermione just sighed. She didn’t want to influence their decision, but she did.
“Well then, I guess I’ll take it too,” said Harry, not wanting to be left out.
“Fine! Don’t let  your subconscious  self  choose,  let  me do it  for  you,” groaned
Hermione, throwing her hands into the air.
“Okay thanks,” smiled Ron. The three of them tried to find their way to their new class  by  using  the  Marauder’s  Map,  the  only  good…  well  actually,  the  only  map  of Hogwarts that Harry had ever seen. It took them no time to find it with the help of the map, so not before long, they found their quite large classroom, and walked in to see a rather small group of students inside. Most of them were people that Harry had seen before, but never really talked to.
“Why are there so few students here?” asked Harry.
“Yeah, I thought this would be one of the more popular classes,” said Ron.
“Well I did tell you,” said Hermione. “It’s not an easy class. Most people in here are from my Arithmancy class.”
Harry swallowed hard.
“Do you think we made the right choice, Ron?”
“Well, I don’t know….”
“Hey, you’ve had five other brothers go through this already, you should know,”
said Harry. “Didn’t any of them take this class?” Ron stroked his chin, thinking hard.
“Well, I think Bill might have taken it… but never really went anywhere with it,”
he said. “But, I was so little back then, I don’t remember if he said it was hard or not.”
“Well, do you at least know who the teacher is?”
“Um… no.”
“Hermione!” called Harry.
“Yeah?” she asked, turning her head from a group of students that she was talking excitedly to. “What is it?”
“Do you know who teaches this class?” asked Harry.
“No,” she replied as soon as the bell rang. “But, you’ll find out-”
Suddenly, the door opened, and in walked the teacher. Harry’s, along with most of the other student’s jaws fell to the floor.
“Good  afternoon  students,”  announced  their   teacher.  “I  will  be  your  Spell
Invention teacher… my name, if you don’t already know it, is Professor Dumbledore.”
 
Chapter 7- The Return of The Second Years

“Dumbledore?” exclaimed the entire class together. The old man jumped back in surprise from hearing his name said by so many people at once.
“Yes, that is my name,” he said.
“You… you’re our teacher?” asked one student in surprise.
“You didn’t think all  I did around here  was sign papers  and nod my head when people do a job well done?” he asked them. No one said a word. “So, are you saying you’re unhappy to see me?”
“No!” said everyone immediately. Dumbledore smiled at them.
“Oh good,” he grinned. “Now, time for class to begin. I’m sure that many of you have heard that this class is extremely hard, almost impossible. Well, I can say that I am behind all  of  those  terrible  rumors,  but  that  is  just  to  deter  as  many as  possible  from taking this class, because not many possess the talent necessary to do this, and I don’t want a hundred little  students  running around with only a half  idea on  how to  make spells.  I would rather have only a handful be an expert at it.”
With that, he walked over to his desk at the front of the room, opened a drawer, and took out a small cauldron. He placed it on the top of the desk where everyone could see it.
“This,”  he  said,  “is  a  Ordinator  Potion.  From  this  concoction,  all  spells  are created,  made,  and  altered.”  He  took  out  his  wand,  and  pointed  it  at  the  rather  calm concoction inside. “Let me show you what a simple MMSC Code looks like. Lumos!” The spell, rather than creating a small beam of light, came out as a thick cloud and flowed right into the potion, making it turn a bright yellow.
“The spell is now inside the potion, and is completely changeable. But, before we alter  it  just  yet,  let  me  show  you  what  code  makes  this  spell  up  in  the  first  place. Ordinatum!” No beam came out of the wand, but a holographic screen popped right out of the potion, and projected itself into the air. It looked like a Muggle computer or television screen,  only  larger  and  perfectly  flat.  Then,  Harry  noticed,  there  were  words  on  the screen:


(Light Spell)
<lumos>


[size]   1


[see]light = light + 100
[smell]none
[hear]none
[taste]none
[touch]none

Harry  had no  idea  what it  meant, but before  he  could  try  to  make  sense  of  it, Dumbledore started explaining it.
 
“This is the MMSC Code, the code that tells what should happen as soon as you summon  this  spell.  At the  top,  in  comment  parentheses,  is  the  name  of  the  spell,  and below it, in the greater than and less than signs, is what you say to use the spell. Usually, a word not heard in normal speech is used, to try and prevent people from accidentally using spells  while engaging in conversation. So, words from other  languages are used, mostly obscure ones like Latin, though some still prefer French, Japanese, Greek, or even English even though they are still in use today.
“Below that part is where the real fun begins. The size part tells how big the beam is. In Lumos’ case, the beam is relatively small, the standard size. The larger the beam, the more magical energy it takes to use the spell.
“And below that indicates what the spell does. The spell can produce something that you see when you use it, smell when you use it, hear when you use it or when it hits you target, taste when you eat it, or feel when you use it or when your target is it with it. Now, Lumos does not do anything except produce a beam of light, so it does not require more than a single line of code, and minimal magical energy. The ‘light = light +100’ part shows that when you use it, it creates a thin beam, as indicated by the size, that increases the light in the area of that beam by one hundred. The more lines of code that are used and the higher the numbers, the more  magical energy is  drained upon summoning the spell. Now, any questions?” Hermione, of course, raised her hand.
“Yes, Miss Granger.”
“Professor, how are the see, smell, hear, taste, and touch constants declared?” she asked, insightfully. “How does the spell know what they are?” .
“That,” said Dumbledore, raising his pitch, “goes all the way back to the creation of magic. As you should know from your History of Magic lessons-”
“Yeah right,” whispered Ron to Harry.
“-Majik Premer  was the first  wizard… ever. He spent years  and years trying to invent the first spell, but he couldn’t figure out how to change the physical world without actually touching anything. It took him decades to finally figure out a way to change the five senses that we can experience, and since then, not a wizard has ever even touched the code he made that declares those constant’s values… even I can barely understand it. But, we don’t have to  worry about that. All we need to  do, nowadays, is  to  simply put in the words, and tell what should happen to that specific sense.”
“But,” continued Hermione, “if you can change what the five senses  experience, then wouldn’t it be possible to change things beyond our physical grasp… like time?”
“But  we  can  already  do  that,”  interrupted  another  student.  “Remember  Time
Turners?”
“Ah,” said Dumbledore, putting up his finger. “That is not actually true. Not many wizards  know that  Time  Turners  do  not  actually  take  you  back  in  time,  but  really  just change the  world around us to  a specific  place  in time.  You see,  every second, a Time Turner sends off an invisible wave throughout the entire universe that records everything it touches, and saves that data inside. When it is turned to return to a certain time, the Time Turner merely accesses  the saved time, and ‘loads’ it into the current world by changing everything to  match what it was. So, you are not really time traveling, just returning the universe to look exactly like a certain time.”
“But isn’t that just as good?” asked the same student. “I mean, what could make
 
actual time travel superior to that?”
“Another  very good  point,”  said  Dumbledore,  scratching  his  nose.  “But if  you think about it hard enough, you can find the answer quite easily. You see, a Time Turner only starts sending out waves after it has been created. So, a Time Turner cannot bring you further into the past before the time it has been created. For example, lets say you created a Time Turner on Wednesday the fourth. You wait a week, and you could return to either the tenth, ninth, eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth, or all the way back to the fourth, the day you created it. But, no matter how many times you turned it, you could not go to the third or before that.”
“But don’t we have Time Turners that go all the way back for hundreds of years?” asked the same student again, determined to try and prove her point. Dumbledore shook his head.
“No,” he  said.  “In fact,  the  Time  Turner  is  a  very  recent  invention.  The  latest someone could go back is about… thirteen years I think.”
“So that’s why Voldemort didn’t just get one of  his Death Eaters to  use a Time
Turner  and go  back and stop  him from  going to  your  house,” whispered  Ron to  Harry.
“They hadn’t been invented yet!”
“So,” said Hermione, trying to wrap up the entire discussion, “if someone were to figure out a way to declare time as a constant, a person would be able to travel backwards and forwards through time as he or she pleased?”
“Yes,” said  Dumbledore,  giving a  grin,  and showing  a  twinkle  in  his  eye,  “the development of such a thing would be the greatest invention ever in the history of magic, except for its actual invention.”
For the rest of the class, Dumbledore showed the students various spells and their MMSC code.  He  showed them  a few more  not  very complex  spells  (like  Wingardium Leviosa) and some very sophisticated offensive spells (like Stupefy and Porcini Magus). He  said they would all,  by the  end of  the  year, be  able  to  create  spells  like  these,  and everyone was anxious to try and make their own. To get them all excited, he showed them the  MMSC  of  one  of  his  own  spells,  the  Anata  Naru  Spell,  an  unavoidable  spell  that allowed you to switch bodies with someone else. Harry was going to ask if he could try it out, but the bell rang and everyone returned to their common rooms, to do their Potions Homework.

The first  week of  school went by very quickly and before  Harry knew it, Friday arrived, bringing with it the tryout for  the Gryffindor Quidditch Team. After classes  had ended, Harry, along with Ron, walked out to the Quidditch Field, where the tryout would be held. When they arrived, there were ten people, ready to go. Much to Harry’s dismay, the first years he had helped last year as a Prefect were all there, just as they had said.
“Hey Harry!” called Chris, the most athletic of them all.
“We’ve been practicing all summer long!” said Mike.
“And now we’re really good!” squeaked Akshay, flexing his tiny muscles.
“I LIKE THE QUAFFLE!” grunted Joe, running after the red ball.
“Ron,” whispered Harry. “We can’t risk having any of them on the team.”
“What should we do then?” Harry thought for a second.”
 
“I know,” he said, “let’s just have a Quidditch match. Two Beaters, two Chasers, and a Keeper  to  each time, five on five. First  to…  oh say… one  hundred wins, and the winning team makes it, and the losers go away.”
“But how will that help us get rid of them quickly?” asked Ron.
“Well, we’ll make one of them the captain of one of the two teams. That one will surely pick the rest of his friends, and then that team will lose.”
“But what about the poor guy who gets stuck with the four of them for tryouts?”
asked Ron. Harry shrugged.
“Oh well,” said Harry. “All victories have some sort of sacrifice.”
“Yeah, sounds good.”
“Alright!” announced Harry to the hopefuls, clearing his throat. “We’ve decided… after much talk and deliberation… that the best way to hold this tryout would be to have a Quidditch  match.  Two Beaters,  two  Chasers,  and a  Keeper  to  each  team.  First  to  one hundred wins, and the winning team makes the official Gryffindor one. Got it?”
“Yes!” said the ten of them together.
“Alright,” said Harry, putting his arms akimbo. “Who wants to  be a captain of  a
 
team?”

 


“OOOHHH! ME!” screamed Joe,  bouncing up and down and throwing his hands
 
into the air. Harry stifled down a laugh.
“Alright Joe,” he said, pointing to him, “you’re up!”
“Yahoo!” he yelled, running up next to Harry.
“Who else?” demanded Harry.
“How about me?” asked Akshay, putting his hand up.
“Uh… no,” said Harry. If two of  the boys that he didn’t want to  make the team came up, that would ruin his plan. “How about… you! Dean! Come on up.” Dean Thomas shrugged, and walked up on the other side of Harry.
“Alright Joe, you start.”
“I choose… Chris!” yelled Joe. Chris walked up next to him.
“Dean?”
“I’ll have… Seamus!”
“Chris?”
“Mike!”
“Seamus?”
“Dennis!” Harry was surprised to  see  Dennis Creevey try out… especially with what happened to his brother last year.
“Mike?”
“Akshay!”
“Dennis?”
“Natalie!”
“Akshay?”
“Aku!”
“Aku! WHERE!?” yelled Mike, jumping up.
“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, feeling sorry for  Ak that he was on their team and was now unofficially out of the running.
 
“Oh…” said Mike, calming down. “It’s just that… well, never mind.”
“Okay…” said Harry, turning back. “Natalie, who do you want?”
“Emma, the only one left!” S She skipped up and high fived Natalie.
Harry  stood  back  and  looked  at  the  two  teams.  Now,  that  he  saw  them  both, neither  was  really  all  too  desirable.  He  wished  he  could  just  have  Fred,  George  and everyone else back instead.
“Okay!” yelled Ron, rubbing his hands together. “Teams, figure out your positions and Joe, your team goal will be the one on the left and you’re team name will be the uh…”
“THE ELITES!” he barked.
“Okay, your team name will be the Elites…” said Ron, wincing. “And your team, Dean, your goal will be down to the right. Your team name will be…”
“The Wizard Duelers!”
“Excellent name,” said Ron, grinning. He and Harry waited for the two teams to arrive at their positions and decided who would be playing as what.
“You guys ready!?” called Harry to them.
“Yeah!” the both teams yelled back.
“Alright  then!”  yelled  Ron,  opening  the  box  of  balls,  and  releasing  the  two
Bludgers.  Since  there  would be  no  Seekers  in  this  match,  the  Snitch  was unnecessary.
“Three… two… one… go!” He opened the straps for the Quaffle and it flew straight into the middle of the match.
“And they’re  off!” yelled  Harry, magically magnifying his  voice  so  the  players could hear. “And it’s… Joe in possession?” It was true. Through he didn’t look like much, Joe shot for the Quaffle faster than any other player and grabbed it before the match was even a quarter second old.
“Don’t  worry,”  said  Ron.  “Seamus  will  stop  him.”  Harry  looked  over  and saw Seamus shooting right at Joe, looking ready to  knock him off. Harry smiled… but then, right at the last second, Joe  threw the Quaffle right into the air, flew under Seamus, and since Seamus was distracted by this, Mike easily flew in and grabbed the Quaffle and shot it into the goal, scoring the Elites the first ten points of the game. Harry’s jaw fell to the ground.
“Wow, they’re good,” said Ron. Harry jabbed him in the side.
“Okay, the score is ten to zero, with the Elites ahead. Come on Wizard Duelers!” The wizards Duelers  were  trying their  best,  but were  being badly beaten by the
Elites.  It was almost  scary, how the four  of  them seemed to  be linked telepathically or something; the way the coordinated their movements… it was almost scary. Harry, for a few minutes, suspected that Ak was helping them with his magic, but he kept a close eye on him in his Keeper position, and his wand was in his pocket at all times. Now, just five minutes into the game, the score was ninety to zero.
“Harry… I don’t think your plan is working,” smiled Ron. Harry glared at him.
“I  think  the  Wizard  Duelers  are  do  for  a  comeback,”  he  said,  returning  his attention to  the  field. Chris  suddenly whacked a Bludger in the direction  of  the Wizard Dueler’s  goals, and Emma, mistaking it  for  a Quaffle  went after  it. This left  Mike wide
 
open to pass to Akshay, who was already by that goal, and easily dropped the Quaffle into the goal, scoring Gryffindor  their  last  and final ten points  that they needed to  win even before Emma realized the mistake she had made.
“Hey!” called Joe, flying down in front of Harry. “We won!” Harry sighed.
“Yes… yes you did.”
“Hey,” whispered Ron, “they may be a bit crazy, but hey, they’re good!”
“I suppose  you’re  right….” moaned Harry.  “Hey, Wizard Duelers…  good  try.” Harry waved to the losing tam as they miserably walked back inside the castle. The rest  of the Elites flew down next to Joe.
“I told you we’ve been practicing,” said Akshay, giving Mike a high five.
“Yeah, well, you won,” said Harry, folding his arms. “So now, you have to do it again… in our first match against Ravenclaw. Think you’re up to it?”
“Yeah!” said the five of them.
“Alright. Ak, you played Keeper, right?”
“Yeah.”
“Alright, well, we’ve already got a Keeper, and you look like you’re more  built for  action. So, you’ll be one  of  our Beaters.  Chris, you too.  You’re as good as Fred or George. As for you three others, Mike, Akshay, and Joe, you’ll be the Chasers. I haven’t seen such awesome cooperation between Chasers since the last World Cup.”
“Thanks,” they said.
“Alright,” said Harry, trying to look at his team for their playing ability, not how he  personally felt.  “Meet  back here  every night after  classes.  You’ll practice  your  new positions and who knows… we may win.”
“Yay!” yelled the four first years, throwing their brooms into the air.
“Okay… bye,” said Harry quickly, walking back up to the castle  with Ron while listening to the excited chatter among the four of them.
“Hey!” Harry heard Ak call.
“Yeah?”
“Our first  Wizard Duel meeting is  tonight… in just  a few minutes  in fact. You coming?”
“Of course!” said Ron, looking thoroughly excited.
“Alright!” said Ak, running ahead of them back to the castle.
“Harry!” came a voice again.
“What is  it?” asked Harry in an annoyed voice.  He  expected  to  see  one  of  the second years, but it was actually Professor McGonagall. “Oh, I’m so sorry professor! You see-”
“It’s quite alright Harry,” she said, waving her hand. Harry noticed, this was one of the first few times she had called him by his first  name. The previous time was when he asked her if he could become an Animagus…. What did she have to say.
“A letter  just  came  for  you,” she  said, breathing hard and taking a rather  large envelope out of her pocket.
“Why didn’t Hedwig just bring it to me?” he asked.
“This one was not delivered by a magical owl,” she said, giving him the letter. “It was sent  by a Muggle owl. Though they are  still  competent  letter  senders,  they are  not
 
very  good  at  delivering  them  to  specific  people.  Luckily,  I  saw  it  hooting  outside  a window. The poor thing didn’t know what to do.”
“Who’s it from?”
“Look for yourself,” she said. Harry turned the envelop over, and to his surprise, the return address was to Dudley!
“Dudley sent me a letter!” he cried in surprise.
“Yes,  that’s  why I  wanted  to  bring  it  to  you  personally,”  continued  Professor
McGonagall. “It was probably important.”
“Thanks professor,”  said  Harry,  continuing on  his  walk back  up the  castle  and shaking the envelope. From the sound of  it, there  was definitely something inside… but what could Dudley have sent him?
“Anytime,” she called to him, sounding a little breathless. She began walking back as well. Harry and Ron ran all the way to the Gryffindor Common Room, unable to wait much longer to see what was inside. What could Dudley have possibly sent him? When the two of them arrived in the common room, they walked over to a corner, and opened it up.
“What’s that?” asked Hermione, coming over to them.
“Something from Dudley,” said Harry, trying to shake whatever was inside it out. Hermione made a face of surprise.
“What’s he doing sending you stuff?”
“I dunno, but it must be imp-” Harry stopped there, and it seemed as if the whole world froze.  When he  saw what had fallen  out  of  the  bag and onto  the  floor,  someone could have knocked him over with a feather, and he probably would have turned to  dust from the impact. Right there, before the three of them, was a Sorceror’s Stone.
 
Chapter 8- The First Match

It looked exactly like the one Harry had found in his first year at school. It was a transparent gold all over with a shiny, red center. Harry’s eyes  widened and he began to drool from looking at it. With this, he could have all the money he’d ever wanted, and live forever….
“Oh… my… god….” gasped Ron, not blinking.
“What  is  Dudley  doing?”  said  Hermione  softly,  not  taking  her  gaze  off  of  it either. “Does he have a collection of these at home or what? Where did he get that from!?”
“I… don’t know,” said  Harry, doing the  same  as  the  other  two, standing there, transfixed onto it.
“Well didn’t a note come with it or something?” asked Hermione, still not raising the  volume  of  her  voice  in  the  least.  Harry  dug into  the  beg  and felt  a small  sheet  of parchment. He quickly ripped it out, and read it aloud softly to the two of them. He didn’t want anyone else in the room to hear.


Dear Harry,

Remember how we went to see that lady in the funeral home that day during the summer? Well, as it turns out, she was actually someone very important… in your world that is. I think her name was Perenelle Flamel. Does that name ring a bell? Oh well.

Anyway, it  seems  as though this  Stone was her most  prized possession  and she decided to leave it to whoever bothered to show up at her funeral. Seems as though she’s not very popular with the rest of her family… it said in the  will that the funeral home sent me that she wouldn’t share her Stone with the rest  of her family, trying to keep some sort of  ‘immortality  spell’  as  she  called  it  off  of  them.  Said she’d give it  to  whoever  went through the little trouble of finding where her funeral was. Weird, huh?

Anyway, I hope this  letter  gets  to  you. I had to  steal  this  owl from  the biology room at my school and I think I told it to deliver it to you. Oh, by the way, try to send him back as soon as possible, so I don’t get in trouble and because we need owl pellets for a test on Wednesday.


Dudley

“That lady was Nicholas  Flamel’s  wife!” said Harry, lowering his  voice  from  a yell to a whisper, realizing how loud he was talking before.
“She has her own Sorcerer’s Stone?” asked Ron.
“And Dumbledore didn’t destroy it?” gasped Hermione.
“Maybe she  hid it,”  guessed  Ron  “No wonder  she  stayed alive longer  than her husband; he died last year.”
“Speaking of Dumbledore,” said Harry, “we have to give this to him.” Ron and Hermione looked up at him.
“Are you sure?” she asked.
 
“Couldn’t we just make a little gold?” begged Ron.
“No way!” said Harry, snatching it from off the ground. “If we do that-” Suddenly, the  same  holographic  map  shot  out  of  Harry’s  ring  and  into  the  air.  It  was  massive, depicting the entire world, and someone could see it!
“Get down!” yelled Harry, pushing Ron and Hermione’s heads to the ground, and shining  the  map onto  the  floor.  He  looked  up for  a  second…  no  one  had seen  it.  He breathed a quick sigh of relief.
“What is that?” asked Ron and Hermione together, gazing at the map.
“I- I’m not sure,” said Harry, looking at it too.
“What are those?” asked Ron, pointing to the four colored dots.
“Like I said… I don’t know yet,” said Harry, trying to keep his voice down.
“You mean, you’ve seen this map before?” asked Hermione. Harry swallowed hard
“Yes. Once before, in Dumbledore’s office.”
“His office? Why there? What triggered it?”
“I don’t know,” said Harry, letting go of the Stone, “I just touched this watch and-” Harry suddenly noticed that the map had disappeared.
“Harry… touch the Stone again…” said Hermione quietly. Slowly, Harry reached his finger out, until it touched the Stone. The closer it got, the more Harry’s finger burned, and the brighter it shone green. The instant Harry touched it, the map appeared again. He took his finger off, it disappeared, touched it, it reappeared, let go, it went away.
“So the Stone is what triggers it,” said Ron.
“No,” said Harry, standing up and putting the Stone in his pocket. “I didn’t touch a
Stone in Dumbledore’s office. It was a watch.”
“Maybe it was made out of tiny Sorcerer’s Stones,” suggested Ron.
“Ron,” said Hermione  exasperantly, “how many Sorceror’s  Stones  so  you think there are in the world?”
Ron shrugged.
“A lot?”
“No,” said Hermione. “This one isn’t even supposed to be here. There’s certainly not enough to make a watch out of. What I’d like to know is… what is that map?”
“And what the dots are for,” added Ron.
“Well, we can ask Dumbledore all about that when we see him in the office,” said Harry. “Let’s go. We may still be able to make the Wizard Duel meeting is we leave now.” Hermione rolled her eyes.
“Yeah,  I  agree  with  Harry,”  said  Ron,  suddenly  interested  upon  hearing  that Wizard Duel was involved. “Let’s go!” The three of them walked to Dumbledore’s office, their  heads  buzzing  and  on  the  verge  of  explosion.  How  were  the  Stone  and  the  ring linked? What was that map? What did it show the locations of? Suddenly, when they were walking down a hallway, Ak jumped out in front of them.
“Harry! Ron!” he yelled. “Get in here! You’re going to miss the meeting!”
“Err…” mumbled Harry, wanting to get to Dumbledore as fast as possible. “We…
have to go somewhere.”
“What place could be more important at this time than here?” asked Ak, shocked.
“Nothing!” said Ron, pushing his  way in front  of  the  two of  them. “In fact,  we
 
were headed here right now!”
“Ron!” whispered Harry angrily. They had more pressing matters.
“We  can  go  see  Dumbledore  anytime,”  whispered  Ron  back.  “This  club  only meets… what? A few times a year?”
“Yeah, that‘s about right,” said Ak, obviously hearing them.
“Exactly. Let’s go!”
“Fine…” agreed Harry. “But only for a while!”
“Alright alright,” said Ron, grabbing his deck out of his pocket and running into the room. Harry and Hermione followed him inside and Harry was surprised to  see  that besides the five new students, there were only two other students in the room, and Harry had never seen either  of  them before. Evidently, the club hadn’t been as popular here as the new students had hoped.
“Where is everyone?” asked Ron. Ak shrugged.
“We’re  hoping the  club will  pick up by the  second  meeting,” he  said. “But, no matter  right  now.  Let’s  get  this  meeting  underway.  Harry,  you  and  I  will  play  a  little exhibition game, just to show Hermione and these other two here how to play. Are you up to that?”
“Oh yeah,” said Harry, taking out his deck and sitting down on the floor. Ak gave out a laugh. “What’s so funny?”
“Harry,” he said, “we do not play on the floor! No… we have something specially prepared  for  the  club.”  Ak walked  over  and opened  a  closet  in  the  room.  From  it,  he brought a small table that looked relatively normal, except for a small hole in each corner. Ak set it down in front of Harry, and beckoned him to sit.
“Put your deck of  cards in the hole  in the corner,” said Ak. Harry followed his instruction and slid it in. It fit perfectly. Then, just as the deck slid in, Harry’s side of the table began to glow, and his deck shone brightly. When Ak put his in, his side of the table did the same as well.
“What is this?” asked Harry, amazed.
“It is  a holographic dueling table,” said Ak. “Instead of  just  battling with cards, you battle with the real things…. Makes for a much more interesting game.” Harry gazed at the table, wanting more than anything to see how this was going to look. Suddenly, five figures appeared before Harry: a wand with a Stupefy Spell coming out, another Stupefy, a Merging Spell, a Disarming Spell, a Quick-Attack Spell, a phoenix, and a house elf.
“What is this?” asked Harry again.
“Oh, that’s your starting hand,” said Ak. “It is  automatically dealt  to  you, along with the card you get at the beginning of each turn.”
“But, you can see the cards in my hand!” gasped Harry.
“Can  you  see  mine?”  asked  Ak,  smiling.  Harry  looked  over.  Apparently,  the holographic cards in you hand were only visible to you. “Here, I’ll go first…to show you how to play with this new thing.”
“Alright,” said Harry, looking at his house elf that was playing with his phoenix. They looked incredibly realistic, only they were about four inches high.
“Alright! Listen up!” called Ak to the group. “Watch us, and you’ll find out how to play the game!” All of  the kids walked over, and surrounded the table. “As most  of  you know, you get  two actions  per  turn, and an action  is  either  playing a fighter,  an effect,
 
using a fighter’s  ability, or  drawing an additional card. For  my turn, I will  use  my first action by playing a fighter: Boggart!”
Ak reached and grabbed hold of one of the cards in his hand that were invisible to Harry. He picked it up, and placed it on the field. There was a flash of light in the spot he chose for a second, then the Boggart appeared in its normal form: a floating blob.
“For my next action,” continued Ak, “I will draw an additional card. Since you can only attack at the beginning of your turn, and I have used my two actions, my turn is now over. Harry, you may begin.”
“Thank you Ak,” said Harry, trying not to  laugh at him explaining in detail each move that he made. The table automatically drew his card for him; it was a pensieve. The blue, smoking cauldron looked like a miniature version of a real one. After thinking for a second, Harry made his first move.
“For my first action,” began Harry, “I will play a phoenix.” Following what Ak did, Harry  grabbed  hold  of  his  holographic  phoenix  that  way busy  flapping its  fiery  wings, picked it up, and placed it on the field. There was a small burst of color, and it appeared in the spot he had placed it. Immediately, the boggart turned into a phoenix too, due to  its special ability.
“Next,  I  will  play  a  stupefy  spell   on  Ak’s  boggart.”  Harry  picked  up  the holographic wand with the green spell coming out, and placed it on the Boggart. After the colors flashed, Ak’s boggart returned to its normal form, and fell onto the table from its hovering position. It wasn’t quite dead, but severely wounded, and unable to attack.
“Nice move there,  Harry,” said Ak. “But, it’s my turn now!” The table drew his card  for  him.  “I choose  not  to  attack  with  my  boggart,  since  it  is  so  weak,  would  be slaughtered by Harry’s phoenix, and it is  unable to  due to  the Stupefy Spell having been played one it. So, I will begin my turn by playing a Flobberworm card.” He dragged the it onto  the table, and the pathetic  grub appeared. Suddenly, the Boggart disappeared. “And, playing Flobberworm requires that I discard one of my fighters in play, so my boggart is gone.”
“Hah, what a waste,”  said  Harry.  Flobberworm  was a very pathetic  card.  It  had almost no power, and it cost you a fighter to play. Ak was worse than he had thought.
“That’s what you think,” smiled Ak. “But, I still have another action. I will play… Cloning  Chamber!” Ak dragged it  out  into  the  field  of  play, and a  small,  metallic  box appeared that was giving off smoke and bouncing up and down a little.
“What does that do?” asked Harry, having never seen that card before. Ak smiled.
“It’s a very rare card,” he grinned. “At the beginning and end of each of my turns, I get to make a copy of a creature that I have that has a power of one. So, Harry, meet my other   worm.”  The  Cloning  Chamber  made  a  small  explosion  sound,  and  a  second Flobberworm appeared next to the other. “Your turn Harry.”
“Yeah yeah, two Flobberworms is still  is nothing,” he said, the table giving him his next card: another pensieve. “Now, I attack one of your worms.” Harry’s phoenix dived at the worm, causing it to burst into flames and turn into a small pile of ash that quickly disappeared. Harry smiled. This was Wizard Duel as it was meant to be played.
“Now, I shall play a house  elf,” announced Harry, dragging it  out and making it appear. “And, I shall  use  a Merging Spell  to  combine  my phoenix and house  elf  into  a
 
superior  creature.”  Harry  moved  the  spell  over  the  two  fighters  and  they  both  shone brightly for  a second and then melted together. After giving off  a quick, white flash, the new creature  appeared: a house  elf  that had extra-long phoenix wings and four, flaming arms.
“Your turn  Ak,” said  Harry,  trying to  sound menacing and intimidating. But,  it wasn’t working. Ak looked as calm and cool as he ever did. He merely allowed the table to giving him his card, and then begin his turn. Immediately, another Flobberworm appeared on the table, due to the Cloning Chamber.
“Alright… I shall  begin by playing… another  cloning chamber!” He  dragged it out, right next to the other one. Harry felt a single drop of sweat come down his forehead. Now the Flobberworms would quadruple twice during his turn….
“Then, I will draw a another card, ending my turn, and I gain six more worms,” said Ak. As soon  as the  word left  his mouth, six new Flobberworms  appeared, making for  a grand total of eight. “Your turn.”
“Yeah yeah,” said Harry, trying to  remain calm with the gaze of  the eight other members of the club on him. His new fighter, the half house elf and phoenix attacked one of the Flobberworms, lowering the number by one. Harry drew his card: another pensieve! He had to get rid of some of those later.
“Alright,” began Harry, “I’m going to play a disarming spell on one of the Cloning Chambers!” Harry dragged his card over the Chamber, and watched it disappear, right into Ak’s discard pile. “Good, one down. Now, I’ll play a pensieve.” The bowl appeared on the board, appearing to have the mystery liquid in it too.
“My turn,”  said  Ak, still  not  looking  shaken.  He  drew  his  card,  fourteen  new Flobberworms appeared, and he gave a wide smile. “Well then, for my first action, I shall play another Cloning Chamber!” He dragged it out and it appeared, taking away some of Harry’s hope with it. “Then for my second action… yet another Cloning Chamber!”
Harry’s mouth dropped, and he heard some laughs from the observing crowd as it appeared in play. “I’ll end my turn now… and gain sixty three more Flobberworms!” They all appeared, now as a pyramid of Flobberworms, stacked on top of each other, peaking at about a foot high. They were making the most horrible sucking sound and giving off some sort  of  horrible liquid that flowed all the way down the side and onto the surface of  the table. Whether you were fighting it or in control of it, it was not a pleasant sight
Harry swallowed hard and began his turn. If all of  those  attacked his half-house elf-half-phoenix fighter, it would be killed instantly, allowing Ak to  deal all the damage directly to his deck the next turn, and annihilate him. He had to find a way to protect his card and his deck… then he remembered! The pensieves! After  his fighter  attacked and killed a single Flobberworm, Harry drew his card (a Stupefy) and began his plan.
“For my first action, I will put my fighter into my pensieve.” The half-house elf- half-phoenix disappeared, and the pensieve turned red. “Just so that you know,” said Harry, talking to  the crowd who didn’t know as much as he or  Ak, “a pensieve, when you put a fighter  into  one,  gains  power  equal  to  the  fighter’s  power,  but  it  cannot  attack,  only defend. When the pensieve dies, the fighter you put in it comes out unscathed.”
“Yeah  yeah,  keep  going  with  your  turn,”  said  Ak,  looking  very  satisfied  with
 
himself.

 


“And for  my last  action,  I will  play another  pensieve.” Harry moved it  out  and
 
watched it appear right next to his other one. He would have to stall for  a while until he could  find  a  way  to  wipe  out  all  of  the  Flobberworms  at  once  or  kill  the  Cloning Chambers.
“My turn!” said Ak excitedly, getting his card. As soon as it went into his hand, two hundred and fifty two more Flobberworms appeared on the table. “First of all, I will attack with all of my Flobberworms!” The mass of grubs, after vibrating for a few seconds, fell over right onto Harry’s pensieve with his fighter inside, making it break open, and his half-house  elf-half-phoenix  to  come  out.  “Now,  even  though  I  don’t  need  to,  for  my actions, I will play two Cloning Spells  on my Flobberworms, doubling them each time, giving me a total of… one thousand three hundred and forty-four! Now, I end my turn, and get an additional four thousand thirty two!”
The amount of worms was almost overwhelming. The pile went ten feet off of the table now, and took up most  of  the surface  of  it, except for  a small area designated for Harry’s two cards. Ak gave a superior-looking smile.
“Don’t get too cocky,” said Harry, trying to sound cool, and drawing his card (an Avada  Kedavra  curse…  useless   against  the  Flobberworms).  Harry  played  his  other pensieve, and put his fighter into one of them, trying to stall for more time… something had to happen to turn the tides of this battle!
But, it was now Ak’s turn, and he got and additional sixteen thousand, one hundred twenty-eight bugs. He attacked the pensieve, breaking it, and forcing the fighter  out. Ak skipped his actions, just wanting to get this battle with as soon as possible. He got sixty four thousand, five hundred twelve more.
“That Cloning Chamber card should be banned,” commented Harry, attacking one of them with his half-house elf-half-phoenix.
“Oh Harry,” laughed Ak behind his ever growing pile of grotesqueness. “That card is  so  rare…  I’m probably the only person  on Earth with four  of  them. I’ve had to  trade away most of my collection to get them from other players.”
“Yeah yeah, sure.” Harry drew his card, and was happy to  see  it  wasn’t another stupefy, it was a Sap Strength Spell. “For my first action, I will use The Sap Strength Spell, allowing me to improve one of my fighter’s power by one per fighter my opponent has in play. My target is  obviously the half-house elf-half-phoenix, making his power… eighty thousand, and twenty six.”
“What’s the point?” laughed Ak. “Even if your fighter has a million power, it can still only attack one fighter at a time!”
“Yeah, I know,” groaned Harry. This was his last turn to stall… something had to happen soon.  “Then, I will  put  my fighter  into  my last  pensieve,  and end  my turn.” Ak shrugged, and drew his card. He attacked the pensieve, breaking it, and forcing the high powered half-house elf-half-phoenix out. His pile of grubs tripled, he skipped his actions, and then it  doubled again… giving an insane amount of  Flobberworms…  seven-hundred and seventy-four thousand, one hundred forty-four.
It was now Harry’s turn, and all eyes were on him. All of his pensieves were gone and he had to get something good this turn or else his fighter would be destroyed and he would lose  the  turn afterwards.  Harry closed  his  eyes,  and hoped for  a miracle….  The table gave him his card.
Harry breathed a sigh of relief, and gave a massive smile.
 
“For my first action!” announced Harry, feeling great at the promise of victory. “I shall play… Voldemort!” There were a few shrieks of surprise and fear when Voldemort appeared on the  field,  in all  his  horrible  glory compressed  into  four  inches.  Harry saw Ak’s eyes  grow wide. “And as you obviously know, Ak, Voldemort  has a special ability. When he comes into play, all fighters that your opponent controls are sent to the discard pile! Goodbye Flobberworms!” In an instant, the pile of Flobberworms that was practically overflowing off of the table and bursting through the rood disappeared, allowing Harry to get a better view of Ak’s terrified face.
“And for my last action, I shall use the Quick-Attack Spell on my half-house elf- half-phoenix fighter. And, Ak, since you have no other  fighters  out, all the damage goes directly to your deck, making all your cards in it go to the discard pile, and causing you to lose the game!”
“Yay!” cheered Hermione.
“Go Harry!” yelled Ron, throwing his hands into the air.
“I… lost…” gasped Ak, letting his forehead fall into his hands. All the lights and cards on the table disappeared and Harry removed his deck from the slot.
“Good game,” he said to Ak, offering his hand. Ak stood up, brushed himself off, and shook Harry’s hand, trying to force a smile.
“Yeah, good game,” he said. “You know, that was my first lost… ever.”
“Well, first time for everything,” said Harry. Then, checking his watch, “Oh! I’m sorry Ak, but we’ve got to go, we’re terribly late!”
“Yeah,” whispered Ak, looking through his cards. “Go ahead.”
“Alright,” called Harry, walking out the door  with Ron and Hermione following behind him. “See you later!” When they walked out of  the room, Harry heard all of  the kids in the classroom suddenly burst into chatter, talking about the match, and wanting to start some games of their own.
“Wow,” said Ron, “you were saved by Voldemort…. The irony is overwhelming.”
“Shut up,” said Harry. He hoped he didn’t hurt Ak too badly.
“Oh  don’t  worry  Harry,”  said  Hermione,  as  if  she  read  his  mind.  “That  loss probably did more for  Ak than it hurt him. The tale of that match will spread around the school, and the club will gain popularity. By the next meeting, there’ll probably be many more members.”
“Yeah, all eager to see my Voldemort card,” groaned Harry. He wasn’t sure how he felt. He had won, but it was because of Voldemort. Even though he was only a card… it still felt as though he had actually helped him win, which was not a good feeling.
They soon  arrived right outside  of  Dumbledore’s  office,  and were  surprised  to see Professor McGonagall standing outside.
“What are you doing here?” Ron asked her.
“I could ask you three the same,” she said, looking awfully surprised. “I’m locking up the room, but why are you here?”
“We uh… had to ask Professor Dumbledore something,” said Harry.
“Well,  I’m  sorry  to  say,  but  Dumbledore  has  left  for  the  Ministry  on  urgent business. He is the Minister you know, and has plenty of other work.”
“When did he leave?” asked Hermione.
“Just a few minutes  ago,” said Professor  McGonagall. Harry could have kicked
 
himself  in the head. If he had only not stopped for  the meeting, he could have given the
Stone to Dumbledore.
“Well, when is he coming back?” asked Harry.
“Oh, not for several days,” she sighed. “I’m afraid he won’t be back for at least a week or two.”
“Well, thanks anyway,” sighed Harry.
“By the  way,” asked  Professor  McGonagall  happily,  “what was  in  the  package
 
Harry?”

 


“Oh… that,” said Harry. He had to  think of  something. “Err- it  was… some  of
 
Hedwig’s Owl pellets that I left at home.”
“Owl pellets?” asked Professor McGonagall, Hermione, and Ron together.
“Yeah… I have a whole collection of them…” said Harry, trying to smile.
“Well, I’m not going to pry into your personal life,” said Professor McGonagall, wincing at Harry, and walking away. “But I will tell you to return to your common room now.”
 





Harry.

 
“Yes professor,” said the three of them, walking back.
“Now what are we going to do?” asked Ron.
“We’ll just have to hide the Stone from ourselves and not use it for a while,” said


“Yeah, easier said than done,” commented Hermione. “Even I’m tempted to use it!
 
Infinite life and money…. I mean, come on!”
“Yeah, come on!” said Ron.
“I guess I’ll have to watch it then,” sighed Harry, giving the password (piez) and stepping inside. “I’ll hide it somewhere and put a trap on it so none of us, or anyone else for that matter, can touch it.”
“Fine,” said Hermione, walking to the girl’s dormitory from the empty common room. “Good night.” Harry and Ron walked up to their room, and found everyone else to have already gone to bed. Harry opened one of his drawers in the stand next to his bed, put the  Stone  inside  it,  and  put  a  trap  on  it  that  he  learned  in  Charms.  He  put  the  most dangerous one he knew on it, one that caused a small explosion if you touched it without saying the password first, which he designated as ‘Dumbledore’.
Harry climbed into  bed, and tried  to  fall  asleep… but the  Stone  was calling to him. He tried to concentrate on Neville’s breathing, but it didn’t help. The temptation to use the Stone was so much, Harry thought his brain was going to leak out of his ears…. He didn’t get much sleep that night.
 
Chapter 9- The Ring of The Ancients

Two weeks went by, and Dumbledore  had not yet returned. The Spell  Invention class was on the honor system; the students filed in and they were expected to read out of their  books all period. Though Hermione and a few others  did this, the rest  of  the class took the time to practice playing Wizard Duel. Hermione was right: the news of Harry’s magnificent  victory over Ak had spread like  wildfire  around the school  and now almost everyone was into the game.
Each day after  Quidditch practice,  Harry, Ron and Hermione  made it  a habit to head to the library, to see if they could find anything about Harry’s ring, or any link it had to  the  Sorcerer’s  Stone.  Even though the  three  of  them  had looked  through practically every book last year to study for the O.W.L.s, they were surprised to find a few that they had  never  gone  at  before.  However,  each  day  they  came  no  closer  to  finding  any connection or any information at all.
It  was during the  trips  to  one  of  these  such  sessions  that  Harry  heard  a  most peculiar noise coming from the bathroom.
“What was that?” he asked Ron and Hermione.
“Oh no,” said Ron. “It came from Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom.”
The noise came again. It sounding like an insane donkey yelling as it tried to swim in an acid bath… not the most pleasant thing in the world.
“Should we investigate?” asked Harry, leaning on the door to the room.
“I don’t know…” said Hermione. “Who knows what could be going on.”
“All the more reason to look,” grinned Harry, pushing the door open and walking
 
in.

 


“No no!” scolded Myrtle to a group of ghosts. She pointed to her forehead. “Sing
 
up  here!  In  your  head  voice!”  Her  voice’s  frequency  went  off  the  charts  as  she  sang, creating that horrible noise he heard before.
“Myrtle,” said Harry, covering his ears and looking at the groups of ghosts. Each one  that  resided  inside  Hogwarts  was there:  Nearly  Headless  Nick,  The Fat  Friar,  The Grey Lady, The Bloody Baron, and even Peeves! What was going on? “What are you doing here?”
“Just teaching these ingrates how to sing,” smiled Myrtle. Smiled?
“Whatever for?” asked Hermione.
“To help them on their journey towards becoming spirits,” she said, as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. “Singing brings out the inner life!”
“You’re all trying to become spirits?” asked Harry.
“Why else would we be caught here?” asked Peeves, floating all around the room.
“Well, you may want to learn how to sing before you teach others,” said Ron, still covering his ears from the last fortissimo of sound.
“Oh… I think I do just fine!” said Myrtle, turning back towards her small crowd of ghosts. She ‘sang’ again, and then the group tried to copy what she did. It was horrible, far worse than any torture, Harry could imagine; even worse than the Cruciatus Curse.
“Well then, we’ll be on our way,” said Harry, covering his ears again and backing up slowly towards the exit.
 
“Wait Harry!” cried Hermione, tugging at his shirt. “Look over there.”
Harry looked over where she was pointing and saw a small pile of books laid on top of a sink. “Maybe what we need is in there.” The three of them walked over and Harry picked up a book.
“The Afterlife: A Ghost’s Guide,” read Harry. “Hey Myrtle! What are these?”
“Those  are  some  books  I  got  out  of  the  library  about  sprits,  the  afterlife  and such,” she said, not looking at him. Harry returned it to the small pile, and looked at book after book, hoping to find something of interest.
Suddenly, one caught his eye. It was an old and tattered black book with no title, only a large  picture  on  the  front:  and it  looked just  like  Harry’s skull  ring! He  quickly opened it up to see if there was anything inside. But, all that there was were words… and they were definitely not English. The characters  looked more  like  odd combinations  of squares, triangles, small dots and curvy lines.
“Hey!” called Hermione, seeing the book in Harry’s hands. “That’s Ptomruv, one of  the ancient runes! Let me see  that!” She snatched the book out of  Harry’s hands and opened to the first page.
“Hey, I thought you said you dropped that class,” said Ron.
“No I didn’t,” said  Hermione,  looking  at  the  first  page.  “I only  said  I dropped Divination and Muggle Studies. I never said anything about Ancient-” Suddenly, her eyes widened. “Hey! There’s a description of your ring here, Harry!”
“What does it say about it?” asked Harry, leaning over.
“It says that that it is called the Ring of the Ancients,” read Hermione, moving her fingers under the odd words. “It says the Ring shows the locations of the four ingredients of the Immortal Potion when it touches one of them.”
“Don’t you mean the Almost Immortal Potion?” asked Harry.
“No, this is a different one,” said Hermione, still reading. “According to this, the Immortal Potion would allow the drinker to become someone capable of not only living forever, but also having the power to control space and time.”
“So… basically a god?” asked Ron.
“Yes,  someone  who  would  be  able  to  change  the  universe  to  anything  they desire,” read Hermione. “It says that the Ancients  concealed the four  ingredients  inside everyday objects  to stop so many people from becoming gods. They also made the Ring they created a mandatory ingredient in the potion by changing its code.”
“Hah, so that’s why there’s so many polytheistic religions,” commented Ron.
“However,”   continued   Hermione,   still	reading.   “The   magnificence	of	the ingredients  couldn’t be  hidden perfectly  inside  the  objects.  All  four  of  them  made  the things  they  were  hidden  in  glow  brightly  when  brought  close  to  each  other  and  look especially beautiful.”
“Does it say what the ingredients are hidden in?” asked Harry.
“Um… yes!” exclaimed Hermione. “The Gomotornice is hidden inside the Glove, the  Havomotornice  is  hidden  inside  the  Watch,  the  Bomotornice  is  hidden  inside  the Bracelet, the Sorcerer’s Stone was hidden inside the Necklace, and the Ring was… well, the Ring.”
“Does  it  say anything else?” questioned Harry, wanting to  know as much as he could about this magnificent item that not more than ten minutes ago he thought was just a
 
cool piece of jewelry.
“Well… yes,” groaned Hermione, looking like she was struggling to  read some words. “But this book is so old that most of the rest is smudged out. Sorry.”
“So let me see here,” said Ron, trying to bring everything together. “Harry has a ring, that, when it touches a Legendary Ingredient brings up a map that shows the location of  the  other  three  that, when brought together,  allow someone  to  practically  become  a god?”
“Uh, yes,” said Hermione.
“Wow, that seems a little… much.”
“So  that  Watch  in  Dumbledore’s  drawer  was  really  the  Havomotornice,”  said
Harry, finally understanding. “But why would he have one?”
“Probably to hide it from Voldemort,” said Hermione, closing the book. “As long as he has even one of the ingredients, Voldemort wouldn’t be able to make the potion.”
“So why don’t we find out where the rest of the ingredients are and give them to Dumbledore too?” asked Ron. “Harry, all you have to do is touch the Stone again, we can look at the map for where the dots are and then see if we can get them.”
“We will,” said Harry, “after the Quidditch game tomorrow.”
The three of them left the bathroom, thanking Myrtle for  her help. Even though she didn’t know what she had helped them with, she said, “You’re welcome,” and waved them out of the room.


“Harry!” called Ron. “Get up! Our match is starting soon!”
“Yeah yeah, I’m going,” Harry yawned back. He heard Ron sigh and close the door behind him as he left the dorm. Harry groaned again. For the first time in a while, he had gotten a good night’s rest  and didn’t really feel  like getting up at the moment. Knowing what the  Ring was and what it  could  do  made him feel  a little  better…  though not  too much. With this new power came a new responsibility.
Harry  yawned again and decided  it  was now really  time  to  get  up. He  tried  to throw the covers off of himself, but to his surprise, he found that his arms and legs were strapped to the bed with magical rope!
“What the?” asked Harry, struggling to get out. Suddenly, the blankets were pulled off of his bed, as if by an invisible force. What was going on? If only he could reach his wand on the table next to him….
“Is you ready to  go?” asked Dobby, who abruptly appeared out of  thin air right next to Harry.
“Dobby! Is this your doing?”
“I is so sorry sir,” he squeaked, sounding very guilty. “But I is having to do it. It is for your own good Mr. Harry Potter.”
“What are  you trying to  protect  me from?” demanded Harry, struggling to  free himself. “What could possibly be so dangerous?”
“I cannot say,” gasped Dobby.
“But,” said Harry, stopping his struggling for a moment and deciding to play along for  a while,  “if  you’re  going to  take  me  now anyways, why can’t you tell  me?” Dobby looked at him for a second, and tilted his head to the side.
“Fine, I is able to say now,” he squealed. “Harry Potter  is in danger of… the field
 
trip!”






 


“The one to the pyramid?” asked Harry.
“Yes,” he squealed.
“What’s so bad about? Why was I in danger of it?”
“There is no time!” said Dobby, looking as though he were charging another one
 
of his blue orbs that he used back at the Dursley’s . “We is having to leave now!”
“But wait!” gasped Harry, getting an idea. “I need my… owl pellet  collection!” Dobby stopped charging his spell.
“Where is it?” he asked.
“Right there,” Harry said, nodding in the  direction  of  the  bottom  drawer of  his night stand. “Inside the drawer.” Dobby walked over to the drawer, put his hand on the knob and pulled it open, causing a fantastic explosion that blew Dobby over on his back. It was a good thing he set that trap!
Harry’s  wand flew  into  the  air,  landing  right  next  to  his  hand.  He  grabbed  it, performed the counter curse on the ropes and then jumped out of bed. He quickly fixed his nightstand, that was now no more than a pile of ash, and put the trap back on the drawer containing the  Stone.  After  slipping his  Quidditch  robes  on  over  his  everyday clothes, Harry left the room, laving Dobby there. He didn’t dare to wake him right now, in case he tried  to  take  him away again. Hopefully  he would just  wake up on  his  own and leave… hopefully.
Harry ran downstairs and to the Gryffindor Quidditch room, where everyone was waiting for him.
“Where have you been?” demanded Ron.
“Dobby trouble,” responded Harry with a sigh, still  buttoning up the  top  of  his robe. Ron nodded in agreement, understanding perfectly.
“Alright team,” said Harry rubbing his hands together, a few minutes before their first  game of  the year. Though he and Ron were veterans, the other  five were looking a little scared. Even Ak was showing a few signs of nervousness. “I know you’re all a little anxious about the game, but we’ve practiced long and hard and we’re ready to go! You with me!?”
“Yeah!” they all said through their shaking voices.
“Alright! Let’s go!” yelled Harry, throwing his arm into the air. He swung open the  doors  that lead to  the  field, the  sun flew right into  the  room, and the  team charged outside. The stands were filled with people, excited to see the first match of the year.
“And let’s welcome the Gryffindor team now… even though they are late,” came a new voice over the speaker. Lee Jordan had graduated last year and now Blaise Zabini, a Slytherin Sixth Year, was the new commentator.
“Alright  Harry,  get  on  over  there  and  shake  the  captain’s  hand,”  said  Madam Hooch, flying over on her broom. Harry ran over to the middle of the field, anxious to see who the Ravenclaw captain was.
“Hello Harry,” she said when Harry arrived in the center of the field. Harry didn’t even have to look up to see who it was.
“Hello Cho,” he said, grabbing her hand. Harry had only talked to her a few times this  year  and she  had never  said  anything about  becoming  captain.  “You’re  the  captain now?”
 
“Certainly  am,”  she  said,  letting  go  and  smiling.  “But  just  because  I’m  your girlfriend, that doesn’t mean I’ll go easy on you!”
“Heh, don’t expect anything less than my best against you,” said Harry.
“I would certainly be disappointed if you did any less,” she said, walking away.
“How about we do something later?” called Harry.
“Only if you win!” yelled Cho back.
Harry ran back to his team with a new reason to do well. The six of them mounted their brooms and got ready to go. Madam Hooch flew over with the chest of balls, opened it, and let the Bludgers and Snitch fly away.
“Teams ready?” called Zabini. “On your marks… get set… go!”
Madam Hooch let the Quaffle out of  the box and let  it fly right up into the air. Before Harry even blinked, Joe already had the red ball in his hand. Ron flew backwards to the goals to begin defending, and Harry started scouting for the Snitch.
This is where things all started going wrong.
All of a sudden, Harry was feeling incredibly warm, as if he were in the middle of a massive inferno. He looked down, and saw that his guess was almost dead on. It appeared as though the entire ground was no longer sand, but a giant blaze. Harry almost fell off his broom from looking at it, and tried to see how the rest of the team, and everyone in the stands, was reacting to it. To his surprise, though, no one else except for him seemed to had noticed that the entire ground was on fire!
“Hey Ron!” yelled Harry, sweating like a pig.
“Yeah?” he  asked,  not  having much  to  do.  The Ravenclaws  were  lucky  if  they could ever get their hands on the Quaffle, much less get it all the way to the goal.
“Don’t you see… the fire?”
“Fire?” he  asked.  Harry  saw a  massive  fiery  blast  of  ash,  dust  and fire  go  off below him that he didn’t even seem to notice. It bellowed up into the sky, creating a small, black cloud. “What fire?”
“That- you know the… that one right- oh…. Never mind,” mumbled Harry. What was going on? Why was he the only one seeing all Hell opening up right below them?
“And  Gryffindor  scored  again!”  called  Zabini,  trying  to  sound  excited,  even though he was a Slytherin. “Making it now thirty to zero!” Harry shook his head. He must have missed a few scores  while he was trying to make sense of the fire. Now he looked over  at  the  Ravenclaw goals  and  nearly  fainted  at  what  he  saw.  Every  member  of  the Ravenclaw team was no longer  riding a broom…  but a dragon! Each beast  was massive with red and black scales all over, spikes protruding every few feet, and breathing fire all over the place.
“AAAHHH!” yelled  Harry, falling off  of  his  broom  for  a second,  but grabbing back  on  with  one  arm.  “DRAGONS!”  Harry  heard  screams  come  from  the  crowd  as everyone turned their heads in every direction, trying to see where the dragons were.
“And Harry Potter  has just made an interesting announcement, saying that there are dragons somewhere,” said Zabini. “But, there is not one in sight.”
“What  are  you  talking  about?”  screamed  Harry,  pulling  himself  back  onto  his broom. “They’re right over there!” Harry pointed at the Ravenclaw team that was getting closer  and closer  every second. Wasn’t someone  going to  do  something about it!? The dragons  could  destroy  the  entire  stadium!  The  entire  school  even! “The entire  team…
 
they’re… riding them….”
“Harry,” asked Akshay, riding over to him. “Are you feeling alright?”
“Yeah, you’re seeing dragons,” said Chris.
“I’m okay,” gasped Harry, seeing them breathing fire  all over the stands and his teammates, but they weren’t bursting into flames. What was going on? He had to end this match quickly… he had to find the Snitch.
And he  didn’t  have to  look  long.  There,  right  below  Harry,  and near  the  fiery ground  was  the  golden  Snitch.  He  pointed  his  broom  towards  it  and  shot  down  right towards it. He put out his hand, ready to grab it… then crashed right into the fiery ground. The Snitch wasn’t really there! It had been an illusion!
Harry’s broom stuck into the sandy surface and he went flying. He did a roll in the air and landed on his back, right inside the flames. Harry started running around, putting water spells on himself, hearing laughs from the stands and comments from Zabini. But he didn’t care! He was on fire!
Suddenly, there  was a sound like thunder above, and Harry looked up, hoping it was rain. It was rain… only not the kind Harry was accustomed to. This time, it was raining flaming stones. Millions of them were quickly falling from the sky, all ready to fall right on the field. It was as if there was a fiery meteor shower, and all of them were aimed right at Harry.
“AAAHHH! STONES!” he  yelled,  curling  up and preparing for  the  impact.  He could feel his body on fire, the dragons beating above, and the rocks about to land on him. Then, all of it came down at once, and an instant later, everything went black.

“Good! You is  waking up!” came a voice, from not too  far away. Harry felt  the world  slowly  but  surely  coming  back  into  focus  and saw the  all  too  familiar  little  elf standing on the bed right in front of him. “Go away Dobby!” Harry put on his glasses, and found that he was in a bed in the hospital wing.
“Is you ready to go now?” he asked with a smile on.
“Why would I be any more ready to leave now than this morning?” asked Harry. Then, he remembered why he was in this room. Harry quickly put two and two together and figured  out  who was responsible  for  what happened. “You did all  that  at  the  Quidditch match! You made me see all those things that weren’t really there! The fire, the dragons, the Snitch and the stones! You made all that!”
“I is so sorry,” squeaked Dobby. “But now you is having to be ready to go, what with all the embarrassment you is must be having now.”
“Dobby,” said Harry seriously, “when will you understand? I am NEVER leaving!
 
Got it?”



 


There was a knock at the door.
“I is having to go now!” said Dobby quickly, disappearing. The door opened and
 
the rest of the Gryffindor Quidditch team walked up to Harry’s bed. He gave a groan. They had to have lost the game; without a Seeker, how could they have possibly won?
“What happened?” asked all six of them together.
“Dobby happened,” sighed Harry, lying back down on his pillow.
“What did Dobby do?” asked Ron.
“What didn’t he do?” said Harry. “He made me see  all these  things that weren’t
 
there… making me fall and collapse.”
“Oh well,” said Ak. “You shouldn’t feel too bad. I mean, we won anyways.”
“Wha- what?” asked Harry, amazed at what he just heard. How could they possibly win without a Seeker? It was impossible… wasn’t it? “How did you win?”
“I made a Snitch Slip,” said Ak.
“You did a what?” asked Harry.
“A Snitch  Slip,” repeated  Ak. “I caught the  Snitch  even though I was a Beater. Whenever a player catches the Snitch that’s not the Seeker, it gives the opposing team one hundred and fifty points.”
“So how did that let us win?”
“We  got  one  hundred  sixty  points,”  explained  Chris,  “and then  Ak caught  the
Snitch. The final score was one hundred and sixty to one hundred fifty in our favor.”
“Ravenclaw didn’t get any points?” gasped Harry.
“Not a one,” said Mike.
“And you got one hundred and sixty?”
“Sure did,” said Akshay.
Harry was amazed. His team of second years and a sixth year got one hundred and sixty points like it was nothing. Harry hoped he wasn’t becoming obsolete.
“You really know the game well, Ak,” commented Harry. “I didn’t know anything about Snitch Slips.”
“Not many people do. I think this is only the second or third time its ever been
 
done.”

 


“But what we all  want to  know,” said Joe,  “is what happened to  you out  there,
 
Harry. What made you fall like that?” Harry was about to respond, when madam Pomfrey came over in her usual manner.
“Now’s not the time for Mr. Potter to be reliving that event,” she said. “Out with you all for  now! Once he is  released, you can ask him all the questions  you want.” She pushed them all out the  door.  Ron quickly ran out  ahead of  them all and everyone else waved bye to Harry as they parted
“Ah! A mouse!” squeaked Joe, jumping into Mike’s arms.
“Oof! Get out!” yelled Mike, dropping Joe on the floor.
“What’s  going  on?”  demanded  Madam  Pomfrey.  “I  cannot  have  my  hospital infested with rats!”
“It couldn’t have been a mouse,” said Akshay, pushing his glasses up the bridge of his nose. “I didn’t see anything.”
“Well, something ran by my foot!” pouted Joe. Harry looked at him. How could a kid be so good at Quidditch and yet be so… Joe?
“Well  if  it  wasn’t  a  rodent  than  it  was  probably  just  your  imagination  or something. Now, get out!” yelled Pomfrey again. The five of them quickly left the room, not wanting to summon her wrath.
“Well, who knows what it could be,” she sighed. “I’d better go get some Rodent- Catching Potion from Professor  Snape just to be safe. You’ll be alright while I’m gone, won’t you Harry?”
“Yeah.”
“Alright then, I’ll be right back.”
 




here!”




 
She left the room, shut the door and walked away, leaving Harry quite alone.
“Hey Harry!” came a whisper. “I’ve got some bad news.”
“What?” called  Harry,  turning  his  head  in  every  direction.  “Dobby, get  out  of


“No, this is Ron,” he laughed.
“Ron! So it was you who walked by Joe’s foot. Where are you?”
“I didn’t meant to  do  that,” laughed Ron. “But, it  was funny anyways. I’m right
 
here,  against  the  wall.”  Harry  looked  over  to  try  and  see  him,  but  Ron  was  totally camouflaged. It was as if he was wearing an Invisibility Cloak. “Not the first time being an Animagus has helped me! Chameleons rock!”
“You’ve  got  that  right,”  said  Harry,  feeling  awkward  talking  to  no  one.  “But, what’s the bad news?”
Harry heard Ron swallow hard.
“Harry,”  he  said,  not  sounding  too  happy.  “The  Sorcerer’s  Stone…  its  been
stolen.”
 
Chapter 10- Neville The Death Eater


“Its been stolen!?” yelled Harry.
“Shh!” came a different voice. “You don’t want her to come out again, do you?”
“Hermione?” asked Harry. “Are you here too?”
“Yeah,  I’ve  been  waiting  here  ever  since  you  came  first  in,”  she  said.  “Your
Invisibility Cloak works very well.”
“Well, there‘s no reason it shouldn’t,” said Harry, lowering his voice. “Anyway, how do you know it’s gone?”
“I went upstairs to change before coming down to see you,” explained Ron, “and I
saw the drawer you put it in. It was opened up and the Stone wasn’t inside.”
“How did you know I put it in the drawer?” asked Harry.
“Oh, I  heard  you  open  and  close  it  and  then  put  the  trap  on  it,”  said  Ron.  “I
couldn’t fall asleep, you know, with immortality just two beds away.”
“But who took it?” demanded Harry.
“We don’t know,” sighed Hermione. “Ron didn’t see the culprit.”
“Who could it have been?” wondered Harry, thinking hard…. Then it hit him! Who else had been awake when he had put the Stone away? Neville! His breathing that night was not like a sleeping person’s… much louder than usual. Why didn’t he notice it before?
“Neville took it!” gasped Harry.
“Neville?”
“Yes,” said Harry, jumping out  of  his bed, feeling perfectly  fine  all over. “And who knows what he could be doing with it.”
“Probably  giving  it   to   Voldemort,”  said  Hermione   and  Ron  together,   still invisible.
“My thought exactly,” said Harry, pulling his bandages off. Underneath them, the skin was perfectly healed. “And we have to stop him as soon as possible.”
“Right,” they said, finally becoming visible again. Hermione lowered the hood of the cloak and Ron changed back into his human form.
“Let’s go check if we can find someone who’s seen him recently,” said Ron. The three of them snuck out of the Hospital Wing, trying to leave before Madam
Pomfrey’s  returned.  Once  they  escaped  that  room,  the  three  of  them  burst  into  a  full sprint  all the  way back to  the  Gryffindor  Common Room,  and then to  Ron and Harry’s dormitory.
“Harry! Ron! Hermione?” exclaimed Seamus and Dean together who were sitting on the floor, playing Wizard Duel. “You can’t come in here Hermione!”
“Are you okay?” asked Dean. “You look like you’re out of breath!”
“Have you seen Neville?” gasped Harry, ignoring their questions.
“Yeah, he just left a little  while ago,” said Seamus, still looking at Hermione, and wondering what was going on, and appearing to  be a little  confused. “He looked like he was in a big hurry.”
“So it was him,” said Ron.
“What did he do?” asked Dean. “Is Neville in trouble?”
“Did he say where he was going?” asked Ron, still ignoring their questions.
“No,” said Seamus, shaking his head.
 
“Then we’d better  hurry up and start  looking for  him,” said Harry. The three  of them turned around and ran out of the room.
“Wait! What’s wrong with Neville!?” they heard Dean yell from behind.
“What do we do now?” asked Hermione.
“We need to find out where Neville is,” said Ron.
“Well duh. But how do we do that?” asked Hermione again.
“We need to find an Ingredient to the Immortal Potion,” said Harry. “I can touch it with the Ring and then the map will come up. We can just look for the green dot, and that’s where Neville is.”
“But  how  can  we  do  that?”  asked  Ron  as  they  left   the   Common  Room.
“Remember? The Sorcerer’s Stone is gone.”
“We need another  ingredient,” said Harry. “And I know where  to  find it.  It’s in Dumbledore’s office! He has the Legendary Watch there.” They ran faster than they ever did in their entire lives to Dumbledore’s Office, the entire world unknowingly counting on them to get the Ingredient back as soon as possible. It didn’t take them very long to arrive, the three of them had been there more times than most professors.
“Monkey cakes,” gasped Harry, out of breath when they reached the gargoyle. It moved aside, and they tiptoed up the stairs, trying to catch their breath as they went. When they arrived up in the office,  Harry walked over to  the desk, to  the same drawer he had gone to before. He opened it up… and there was nothing inside!
“Where is it?” asked Ron, looking over.
“That’s what I’d like to know,” said Harry, feeling a little worried. He opened the drawer above it… nothing there. He opened the one on the other side, and the one below that, but there was no Watch in sight.
“Check over there,” said Harry forcefully, pointing to a shelf of books. “It has to be around here somewhere and we’re going to find it!”
Within ten minutes, Dumbledore’s office  was torn apart. Papers, books, pens, ink bottles and more was all over the floor, but there was still no Watch in sight. Every shelf, drawer and surface was cleared and searched thoroughly, but nothing was found. Harry felt a little guilty for tearing the place apart like this, but it was for the good of the universe. After only a few more minutes of tireless searching, the three of them magically fixed the room,  with  the  only  witnesses  to  their  crimes  being  Fawkes  and  the  pictures  of  the previous headmasters on the wall who were mostly all asleep.
“I can’t believe we didn’t find it,” said Harry to himself. “Voldemort is probably making Elixirs  of  Life  already! I can’t believe  we didn’t find it!” Harry banged his  fist down hard on the desk, nearly breaking it in half.
“Harry!” called Hermione, putting her hand over his. “Calm down. It’ll be-” Suddenly, both of them were distracted by the same thing. Harry’s Ring shone a
bright yellow, as did Hermione’s bracelet. Harry’s finger burned for a second and the map appeared before them again, just as it did when he touched the Sorcerer’s Stone.
“Hermione…” said Harry slowly. “Your bracelet is… an Ingredient!”
“Ron?” she gasped. “Did you know that?” Ron’s eyes were wide and glued to the magnificent Bracelet.
“No,” he said, not looking away. As much as Harry would have liked to continue this  little  interrogation,  there  were  much  more  pressing  matters  currently  at  hand. He
 
looked over at the map… the green dot was in England, that much was for sure. But where was it exactly?
“There has to be a way to zoom in,” said Harry, looking for some sort of button on his Ring. He shrugged and touched the right, red eye on the skull. To his surprise, the map zoomed in on the green dot, making it fill the entire screen, and the zoomed-in map was revealed. According to  the  chart,  the  green dot  was in a massive forest,  and it  was moving all around.
“Harry!” yelled Ron. “That’s the Forbidden Forest!”
“How do you know?” asked Hermione.
“Because Hogwarts is right there!” he said, pointing to the lower right corner of the map. Indeed, there  was a big castle  there, complete  with a Quidditch field, lake, and railroad tracks coming out of it. What other place could it be?
“Okay, so  he’s  in  the  Forbidden Forest,”  said  Harry, realizing that  he  was still holding onto Hermione’s hand. He quickly let go, and the map disappeared. “Let’s go find him!” Not knowing how much time they had left, they quickly left the office, doing a quick last minute check that everything was in its place.
“Well at least he’s still on the grounds, and not with Voldemort yet,” said Harry.
“Yeah…” said Hermione, sounding as if something was on her mind. “Ron? If you knew the Bracelet was a Legendary Ingredient, would you still have given it to me?”
“Err- um… sure,” he said. “Of course I would have… maybe.”
They reached  the  front  doors  of  Hogwarts  and opened  them  up,  revealing  the massive Hogwarts grounds. They ran towards the forest  and got ready to go in… as they did almost every year.
“I think we should start a petition to change the name ‘Forbidden’ Forest, to just Regular ‘Forest’,” said Hermione, catching her breath before  they went in. “We go in it every year… but why? Why do all the bad guys have to go in there?”
“Dunno… the rhinoceros told them to?” suggested Ron.
“Yeah, that must be it,” said Harry. “Ready to go?”
“Yeah,” sighed Ron  and Hermione  together,  stepping inside  with Harry. It  was like a completely different world inside the Forbidden Forest. Unlike the nice, clear, and quiet  Hogwart’s  grounds,  the  forest  was  filled  with  bushes,  trees  and other  plants  that seemed as though they would eat you if you stepped on them. Animals, and probably other things Harry didn’t want to think about, were constantly making noise, some okay and nice, others not nearly as much.
“How are we going to find Neville if we keep walking in random directions like this?” asked Hermione, pushing a large tentacle-like plant that was hanging off a tree out of her way.
“Enh, we usually find whatever we’re looking for  this way,” said Ron, pushing the same thing out of his way.
“Well, we may need a bit more than luck to help us this time,” said Harry. “We have to find Neville fast, and chance may not be quick enough. Hermione! Give me your bracelet.” She took it off  her arm, and handed it to Harry, lighting up the forest  with its intense light upon touching the Ring. Harry slipped it on his arm, and his Ring lit up. It hurt a little, indicating that they were close  to another Ingredient, but not too  close. “I’ll just follow the pain in my finger. The more there is, the closer we are.”
 
Harry  stuck  his  hand out  in  front  of  him,  as  if  his  finger  were  the  guide.  He followed the burning sensation in his Ring as if her were someone following the beeps on a metal detector.
“I think we’re getting close,” said Harry, the pain growing so much that his finger was beginning to shake involuntarily. “We’re getting real close  now! Only a few- whoa!” Suddenly, Harry felt as though he had just entered Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes again. He did a somersault  in  the  air  and his  feet  floated  up in the  sky, as  if  held by a large  and invisible person.
“Ron! Hermione! Help!” yelled Harry, stuck upside down in midair.
“You  know  Harry,”  said  Ron.  “We  would,  if  were  weren’t  having  the  same problem as you!” Harry turned his head around ( the rest of his body felt frozen all over) and saw that it was true. The two of them were stuck just like he was, upside down and a few feet above the ground.
“Hey,” said Ron, sounding cheerful. “We’re in the Forbidden Forest, upside down and frozen,  hungry and cold,  and surrounded  by millions  of  demons  of  every  size  and shape that probably wouldn‘t think twice about ripping the skin off of our bones, and then slurping it  up like  spaghetti.  Well,  look  on  the  bright side.  At least  it  couldn’t get  any worse.”
“Wrong!” yelled Neville, suddenly jumping out of a nearby bush, taking them all by surprise. The Sorcerer’s Stone was nowhere in sight.
“NEVILLE!” yelled Harry, Ron and Hermione  together.  “Give back the Stone!” Neville laughed hard, throwing his head back.
“I don’t really think you’re in any position to tell me what to do,” he said, pushing Harry on the nose  with a single finger. He swung back and forth in midair as if  his feet were on hinges to the sky.
“What are you doing here anyway, Neville,” demanded Harry, finally coming to a stop. “How did you get the Stone? Shouldn’t you be with Voldemort right now, giving it to him.?”
Neville stifled a laugh.
“Harry,” he  said,  “you are  the  worst  trap-maker  in  the  world.  I was awake that night, and heard you say the password. All I had to do was wait for the right moment…. As for being with my master now, there are things more powerful than the Sorcerer’s Stone. That is what my master desires.”
“He didn’t tell you what it was he wanted?” asked Harry, wanting to kick himself for being so stupid and not realizing Neville was still awake that night he set the trap. He was  happy,  though,  that  they  at  least  knew  something  Neville  didn’t…  the  Immortal Potion.  He  may have known that Voldemort  wanted something more  powerful  than the Stone, but he didn’t know what it was.
“That is unnecessary information,” he said. “All he told me to do was to set a trap here for you three. He said that you would somehow follow me here by using a ring that could sense the Stone.”
“He knows about the Ring!” whispered Ron angrily to Harry. How could he have known  that?  Harry  didn’t  even  know  what  it  was  until  just  a  few  days  ago!  Why  was Voldemort always a step ahead of them?
“So what’s going to happen now?” asked Harry, trying to stall for some time. “Is
 
he going to come here and take us away to his palace of darkness or what?”
“I don’t  know,” said  Neville,  checking  his  watch.  “My master  did  not  give me further instructions beyond what I have already done. He just told me to wait.”
“How can you respect a master like that?” asked Harry, still trying to figure a way out of the trap. But his whole body, except for his face, was entirely numb and then frozen solid. There was no way out. “I mean, he doesn’t even tell you what he’s planning on doing. How can you possibly be with him?”
Neville  walked up to  Harry’s face, looking more  serious  than he had ever seen
 
him.

 


“Harry,”  he   hissed   softly.   “Voldemort   has   done   more   for   me   than   your
 
Dumbledore has ever or will ever do. Dumbledore could have performed the same spells Voldemort did on me to make me how I am now, but he didn’t. He let me fail, knowing that he could have helped.”
“The spells that Voldemort used on you were probably Dark Magic,” said Harry.
“Even if it would save someone’s life, Dumbledore would never condone the use of it. So your little reason of being a bit more superior is not good enough, Neville. Just because Voldemort gave you a bigger brain, head of hair and arms doesn’t mean you should switch your allegiance as if it were a bathroom light.”
Neville walked so close to Harry that their noses were practically touching.
“Eventually,” he spoke softly, “Voldemort will win. He will rule the world that he has will ablaze as an eternal king, and no one will be able to stop him, especially you, Mr. Potter. All that matters now is whether or not, when that time comes, are you going to be on his good side?”
“Wouldn’t it  be  better  to  die  than to  live  a good  life  in  a Hell?” asked  Harry.
“Because that’s just what the world would be if Voldemort ruled it.”
“For some… I suppose,” said Neville, backing up. “I, however, am not among that group… fortunately.”
There was a moment of an awkward silence.
“So what’s this spell you have us under here Neville?” asked Harry, still looking desperately in vain for a way out. “I’ve never seen a more secure spell than this.”
“This is one of my master’s new inventions,” he said, kicking some dirt into the air. “Beautiful… isn’t it?”
“What exactly does it do?”
“Well,” said Neville, checking his watch again, “I suppose we have a little while. This is the Flipped and Frozen Trap Spell. You set it to grab a specific person when they come  close  to  its  proximity. Then, when the person walks close,  it sucks them in, flips them upside down, and turns the muscles and bones in the body below their head into jelly, for lack of a better word. But, the best part about the spell is that the person who set the traps can control the people who stepped into them.”
Neville smiled and took out his wand. He pointed it at Harry and Harry followed the wand perfectly. Neville put his wand up, Harry went up and hit the trees. He threw it down, and Harry’s head banged on the ground. It was ten times as painful, not being able to cover where he was hit with his hands. Harry yelled out. Neville happily continued moving him through the air as if he were some sort of toy.
But, just like any other child with his toys, Neville quickly got bored with moving
 
Harry all over the place, and fixed him back where he was. Even though Harry’s head was spinning, his little talk with Neville had given him an idea.
“So Neville,” gasped Harry, still feeling a little queasy. “These traps can only be set for a single person. What does it do? Detect their DNA or something?”
“Yeah, that’s  it,”  said  Neville,  sounding a little  annoyed that  he  had to  wait so
 
long.

 


“But  what  if  the  person  in  the  trap  were  to  change  his  DNA?”  asked  Harry,
 
smiling. Ron and Hermione nodded too, they had caught on.
“I suppose the trap would let them go, but that’s imp- oh no…”
Neville  realized what Harry, Ron and Hermione were going to  do a second too late.  Harry  transformed  into  a  Gryffin  instantly  and  jumped  out  right  onto  Neville, knocking him to the ground. When he heard Ron and Hermione fall to the ground in their animal forms, Harry decided to show Neville never to try and get them again. He extended his claws out of  his paw so  they were almost  three  inches  long. He brought it  up, right above Neville’s head, saw the look of fear and panic in his eyes, and then brought the claw down, right on his face, leaving three massive, bloody gashes.
But, that one slash wasn’t enough to take down Neville. He let out a scream, and Harry ripped across his face again with his other paw, making another bloody mark. That last blow subdued Neville and he collapsed to the ground, almost unconscious. At least it hurt enough not to scream. Harry turned back into a human, still looming over Neville.
“Where is the Stone!” yelled Harry, shaking Neville’s shoulders.
“I’ll never tell,” said Neville, drooling blood all over the ground, his eyes rolling back into his head. Harry pushed him to the ground, finally knocking him out. He stood up, brushed himself  off,  and looked at Ron and Hermione. They transformed back too,  and walked over around Neville as well.
“Look at him,” said Hermione, shaking her head.
“Pathetic,” spat Ron.
“All it took was little  surprise, and he was taken down,” said Hermione. “All of
Voldemort’s followers must share his faults.”
“But how are we going to find the Stone now?” asked Ron, waving his arm at the bloody Neville. “The only person who knew where it was is currently… unavailable.”
“Well, we can just use my-” said Harry, before the most surprising thing he could have ever imagined happened. Right before them, Neville Longbottom burst into flames.
 
Chapter 11- The Dueling Club Incident

It happened so quickly, Harry could barely see what was going on. He thought the flames started at his head and worked their way down to his feet, but it was so fast, it was impossible  to  tell. All that Harry knew for  sure is  that where Neville was a second ago, there was now only a pile of ash.
“Where did he go!?” yelled Ron.
“Did he… die?” asked Hermione.
“Well, that would be the best thing to happen all day,” mumbled Ron.
“Oh come on Ron!” said Hermione angrily. “Even if he was evil, he didn’t deserve to die. There was still hope for him.”
“Don’t worry Hermione,” said Harry. “I don’t think he’s dead.”
“What makes you think that?” demanded Ron.
“Remember last year, when we spent the night in Hagrid’s cabin after  capturing
Wormtail?” questioned Harry.
“Yeah,” said Ron, “and then in the morning, he was gone.”
“And all we could find of  him was a pile  of  ash,” said Harry. “I think the same thing that just happened to Neville is what happened to Wormtail.”
“But what did just happen?” asked Ron.
“That’s the question of the day,” said Harry. “Any ideas Hermione?”
“Well,” she said thoughtfully, “I’m not sure exactly what this spell was, but I’ve seen ones like it before. I remember reading about one where someone was frozen in an ice cube suddenly, and then it broke into a million pieces. Everyone thought he was dead, but it turned out that was just the way for his master to summon his minions. Maybe this fire version is just Voldemort’s way of doing it.”
“That’s the best theory so far,” said Harry. “But we have to find the Stone before we can do anything else.”
“How are we going to find it, though?” asked Ron.
“Hermione, give me your Bracelet  again,” said Harry. She threw it over to him, and Harry caught it in his hand.
“Nice catch,” she grinned. Harry slipped the Bracelet on. It, along with the Ring immediately glowed a bright yellow, and just a few feet  in front of  them, a small, green light appeared on the ground. It was very dim, compared to the Ring and Bracelet’s glow, but there nonetheless.
The three of them walked over to the shining spot and immediately began digging with  their  hands,  clawing at  the  dirt.  Each  time  they  dug further  down to  it,  the  glow became more bright and vibrant. It wasn’t too long before the Stone was revealed, brighter than the  sun. Harry slipped it  into  his  pocket  and decided it  was time  to  go. After  Ron stepped into his trap again and Harry and Hermione had a good laugh, they headed back to the castle.
“Alright,” said Harry, when they finally left  the forest.  “This time, I’m going to put an even more powerful trap on a different drawer and I’ll make sure that-”
“Harry!” interjected Hermione. “I think we need to make the Stone more secure than that. Neville easily took it last time and I don’t think we can risk another situation like that ever happening again.”
 
“You’re right,” admitted Harry. “But where else can we put it?”
“It’s not about putting it somewhere more secure, it’s about giving it to someone who will make it more secure.”
“But Dumbledore’s not here, remember?” said Ron.
“Oh for  god’s  sake  Ron!” yelled  Hermione.  “How stupid  can  you  be?  Do  you think Dumbledore is the only one who is qualified to protect a Stone? Remember in our first year, all the teachers made something to guard it? So all of them are able to watch it.”
“Fine, but who do we give it to?” asked Harry.
“Yeah, I don’t want to give it to Snape,” said Ron.
“Well, we could give it to Professor  McGonagall,” suggested Hermione. “She is practically second in command at the school anyway.”
“That sounds like a good idea,” yawned Harry. “Let’s give the Stone to her and go to bed. Having the weight of the world on your shoulders is very tiring.”
The  three  of  them  walked  back  to  the  castle,  still  talking  about  what had just happened. Not before long, they reached Professor McGonagall’s office, ready to tell her the news and give her the Stone.
“Professor?” asked Harry quietly when they walked into her office.
“Yes Mr. Potter?” she asked, furiously working on grading a paper. “Aren’t you supposed to be in bed by now?”
“Well yes, but I, that is… we, have something for you.” She looked up from her work and raised an eyebrow.
“You have something for me?” she asked.
“Well… kind of,” said Harry, moving his head from side to side. He didn’t want her to think this was a present or anything.
“Kind of?” she asked, looking even more curious. “What is it?”
Harry decided to just be out with it and give it to her. He reached into his pocket, with his non-ring hand, grabbed the Stone, and presented it to her. As soon as her eyes met it, they grew twice their size and her jaw fell to her desk.
“That’s a… a….” she gasped.
“It’s a Sorcerer’s Stone,” said Harry, setting it down on the top of her desk. She didn’t take her eyes off of it.
“Where did you… get this?” she asked quietly.
“It was in the  package you gave me  from  Dudley,” said Harry. “He got  it  from
Perenelle Flamel. He didn’t know what it was, so he sent it to me.”
“Perenelle Flamel?” she said. “How did you get it from her.”
“We were the only ones that showed up for her funeral. In her will, it said to give the Stone to whoever bothered to come. I guess we were the only ones that did.”
There was a moment of silence.
“Why are you giving it to me?” asked Professor McGonagall, back in her normal tone of voice
“To protect it better than I did,” sighed Harry. “It’s already been stolen once, and I
don’t want it to be stolen again.”
“Who took it?”
“Neville,” spat Harry. Professor McGonagall sighed.
 
“That poor  boy,” she  said, shaking her  head. Then, returning her  gaze to  Harry,
“you did the right thing bringing it to me. I will protect it, you need not worry.”
“Thank you professor,” bowed Harry.
“No trouble,” she said, turning her attention back to the Stone. “No trouble at all.” Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the room, feeling much better.
“Good,” said Ron. “Now we don’t have to worry about it anymore.”
“And we won’t be tempted to use it either,” said Harry.
“Harry!” came a voice suddenly from ahead. “Where have you been?”
“Oh, hello Cho,” said Harry, trying to sound happy, despite what happened.
“Where have you been all day?” she demanded, crossing her arms. “I’ve been in the Hospital Wing most of the day waiting for you! I didn’t know where else to go!”
“I’m sorry  Cho,”  apologized  Harry,  signaling  to  Ron  and  Hermione  that  they could leave. “I just had some… urgent business.”
She crossed her arms.
“Well, I suppose I can forgive you,” she smiled. “But from now on, tell me before you come out of unconsciousness.”
“I will certainly try,” grinned Harry back.
“Well, I want to see you more often than what we’ve been doing now,” she continued. “After all, this is our last year together.” This comment hit Harry hard.
He hadn’t
realized  it  up  until  now,  but  since  Cho  was  a  year  ahead  of  him,  she  would graduate next year and poor little Harry would be left all alone.
“How about after the dueling club meeting tomorrow?” suggested Harry.
“No,” said Cho. “I have a meeting after that.”
“Okay then, how about after… um, the Wizard Duel meeting?”
“Oh, you’re into all that?” she asked, scrunching her face.
“Enh, it’s okay,” said Harry, trying to downplay his obsession and try to have he same opinion as her.
“But… sure, that’ll work,” she replied. “I’ll see you then!”
“See you!” yelled Harry, walking away from her. Had she really been looking for him all day? Harry hoped Cho wasn’t becoming a stalker… though that wouldn’t be so bad, she was only stalking him after all.
Harry returned to the Gryffindor Common Room, in which there were still a few people  awake,  mostly  the  Dueling  Club  members.  Everyone  was  excited  about  the upcoming meeting since it would be their first duel this year. The rest of the people, Harry saw,  were  there  practicing  for  the  approaching  Wizard  Duel  club  engagement.  It  was certainly going to be a good week.
After working his way through the mass of people, Harry arrived at his dormitory. Seamus and Dean were downstairs, along with Ak. Ron, however, was busy looking under beds and in closets.
“What are you doing?” asked Harry.
“Looking for Neville,” he said, closing the last closet.
“Any sign of him?” asked Harry sarcastically, putting his night clothes on.
“Not a thing,” said Ron, shaking his head, taking Harry seriously.
“Good night Ron,” said Harry, jumping into  his  bed. “You keep an eye  out  for
 
Neville,  alright?” Harry  closed  his  eyes,  not  hearing  Ron’s  answer,  and thinking about where Neville was right now and what Voldemort was doing to him.

“So what are we going to do at this meeting?” asked Malfoy to Harry before the Dueling Club meeting the next day. The entire club was waiting outside of the Great Hall, anticipating the  fight.  To make  up for  many of  the  members  that  left,  there  were  even more newcomers. All of Harry’s Quidditch team had joined, along with Ak’s friends and several of the new first years came as well, trying to learn spells that would help them in class.
“I  actually  don’t  know,”  said  Harry,  feeling  a  little  guilty.  He  should  have consulted with Professor  Flitwick, the head of  the club, about what to  do for  their  first meeting. He was captain of the club after all. But, with everything that had been going on, Harry totally forgot about it, and was now just hoping Professor Flitwick had a good idea.
“Probably it will be just like what our previous meetings have been like.”
Just then, the doors opened by themselves and everyone filed excitedly into the room. The first  thing Harry noticed  was the  fact  that, for  the first  time  ever, the entire room was completely empty. There were no tables, no chairs, no nothing. Just a massive, empty room.
“Come  in!  Come  in!”  called  Professor  Flitwick.  He  was  hovering  around  the room, about ten feet off the ground, sitting cross- legged. Of course, the most obvious and noticeable  thing  about  him  was  his  enormous  smile  that  seemed  to  give  off  its  own rainbow of  color  and trail  behind him as he went about. He floated around everyone as they walked in, shut the doors when they all were inside, and then began speaking again.
“This meeting shall be a little different than our past ones,” he announced with his magnified voice. “Up to now, we have been working on only one on one to three on three fights. While the knowledge of how to fair well during these situations if necessary, it is not all that you need to know. What would you do if you were engaged in a war or another type of large battle? You would not seek out and destroy every person individually… no. You need to learn how to take advantage of your surroundings, how to attack on the larger scale, and how to make use of guerrilla tactics.”
He took his wand out, and held it into the air, looking like he was getting ready to bring it down and cast a large spell.
“I need all of you to spread out as much as you can, at least ten feet between each of you. Trust me, you will need it.” He waited for a minute while everyone moved around, spinning  their  arms  to  make  sure  they  were  far  away enough  from  each  other.  When Professor Flitwick was happy with everyone’s locations, he continued talking.
“When I bring my wand down, your battle location will form. I will wait a minute for it to completely develop and then I will countdown for you to begin. The last person standing is the winner, and don’t worry: I will announce when there is only one left. It may be hard to tell….” Harry saw that everyone was looking nervous, but he was thinking this was going to be one of the best meeting ever.
Professor  Flitwick brought his wand down in one magnificent motion. Hundreds of  green swirls  erupted from  the  tip and flew all over  the  room,  growing as they went. Then, when each swirl hit a surface, a gigantic tree grew right out. So many of these trees were discharged from the walls and floor,  Harry wasn’t sure  whether he was still  in the
 
Great Hall, or a rainforest. The trees were huge, at least five feet thick, and they went all the  way up to  the  ceiling.  Bushes  grew all  around them,  some  with thorns,  others  just leaves and Harry could’ve sworn he heard a bird call somewhere…. They were going to fight here?
“On your marks!” boomed Professor Flitwick’s voice, even though Harry couldn‘t see him anymore. “Get set! Go!”
Harry waited for something to happen… but heard nothing. There were no sounds of spells being used or people yelling; just a few crunches of leaves every now and then, showing  that  there  were  people  moving,  but  not  easily  seen.  Harry  crept  forward,  not knowing if  he  was  going  to  bump into  someone,  bump into  a  tree,  or  continue  going straight. He was just beginning to notice that it was incredibly dark in here.
Suddenly, right in front of him, Harry heard a human voice. He ran over towards the side of a bush and ducked behind a tree. He put his head out to the side, to see if he could see what was going on. Though it was still very dark, he could make out two figures, fighting.
 


Imasu!”

 
“Take  this!”  yelled  one  of  them.  Harry  thought  it  sounded  like  Mike.  “Kitte


Harry heard something sharp and fast fly through the air quickly and hit its target.
 
It sounded like a bow shooting an extremely aerodynamic and sharp arrow.
“Arg!” yelled  Mike’s  victim.  It  sounded  like  one  of  the  new  Gryffindor  first years: Chad. Harry heard him fall to the ground.
“Never underestimate the power of Japanese… and their spells,” snickered Mike, spinning his wand around and blowing off the tip, just like an outlaw would do with his gun. This was Harry’s chance. One of them was gone, and Mike was distracted. He grabbed his wand, spun around, and met him face to face.
“Stupefy!” yelled Harry, just as Mike saw him. He tried to move out of the way, but it was too late. The spell hit him right in the chest and he fell down, right next to Chad. Just  to  mock  him blindly a little  bit, Harry spun his  wand around and blew on  the  end, before putting it back in his pocket.
“Two down, twenty more to go,” he said to himself.
Harry crept forward, keeping a look out for anyone he knew to be wary of. As he went along, he found several people on the ground, knocked out just like Mike and Chad had been. Harry was thankful that Ak, Tci, and Aylar were among those on the ground. They were  the  best  duelers  there  besides  himself.  But then, he  thought to  himself,  who beat them? Harry tried to suppress that thought and continued on, stepping over Akshay’s face that had a pair of broken glasses on it.
“Help!”  came  a  voice  from  up  ahead.  Harry  knew  who  it  was:  Hermione. Immediately, he forgot  all about the duel, and ran forwards, not stopping to  hide behind any trees. If Hermione was calling for help, it had to be serious.
“Help!” she called again. This time, Harry could see  the situation. Chris was on her  back, with his  arms  around her  neck,  trying to  bring her  down while  Joe  was busy attempting to remove her Bracelet from her arm.
Harry didn’t take any time to think about what was going on.
“Apoyiosi!” he yelled, aiming right at Joe. There was an explosion right below his feet and he was thrown up into the trees. Now, it was Chris’ turn. “Wingardium Leviosa!”
 
Harry brought Chris  up high, right to  the  tops  of  the  trees  and then brought him down, much faster, so he slammed right into the ground, face first and unconscious.
“Are you alright?” asked Harry, running over to Hermione.
“Yeah,” she gasped.
“What was that all about?”
“I don’t know,” she said, catching her breath. “First, Joe jumped out of nowhere and grabbed my Bracelet. I shook him off, but when Chris came down right on my back, it got to be too much.”
“What did they want with your bracelet?” asked Harry. “You don’t think they’re… Death Eaters?”
“Ekthkweeze  meh!” yelled  Joe  from  the  branch of  a tree.  His  robe  had gotten caught in a branch on his way up, and now he was hanging from it. “Can you help meh down please?”
“What did you want with the Bracelet?” demanded Harry.
“What bracelet!?” asked Joe, waving his arms frantically.
“Don’t play stupid with me!” yelled Hermione. “You just attacked me!”
“What?  No  meh  didn’t!” yelled  Joe.  “All  meh  know is  first  meh  was  fighting
Chris, and then meh was up here in this tree.”
“You mean you don’t know what the Bracelet is?” asked Harry.
“I  don’t  even  know  what  bracelet  you’re  talking  about!”  yelled  Joe,  spinning around and waving even more.  There  was a snapping sound heard  in  the  branch he  was hooked on and it suddenly fell all the way down to the ground with a loud crash.
“Were you under some sort of spell or something?” asked Harry, helping him up.
“Meh guess  so,” said Joe,  brushing himself  off.  “But, now that you mention  it, meh do remember a little. Blurs mostly… meh remember not feeling mehself. Yeah, meh was attacking Hermione! But, meh don’t remember wanting to do it, it was like there was someone else, telling meh what to do.”
“So, like someone was controlling you?” asked Harry again.
“Yeah, meh guess so,” said Joe, shrugging his shoulders.
“Someone must have put the Imperius Curse on him,” whispered Hermione.
“That means someone here wants to  Bracelet,” responded Harry. “But who here even knows what it is, much less want it?”
Just then, there was a sudden flash of red light, and Joe collapsed to the ground. Harry  ran  over  to  the  nearest  tree  and  hid  behind  it.  He  saw  Hermione  do  the  same. Someone was attacking them.
“Come out come  out  wherever you are,” came an all to  familiar  voice. Neville slowly crept out from the dark trees and Harry thought he saw some snakes slither by as he  came  out.  He  was  twirling  his  wand  in  his  hand,  as  if  he  had  just  accomplished something great. “I know you’re here Harry, so come out and face me.” He was walking closer and closer to Harry. But, he was going to wait for just the right moment to appear and-
“Oh no  you  don’t!”  yelled  Hermione,  jumping  out  from  behind  her  tree.  She quickly pointed her wand at Neville, just as he was turning around. “Stupefy!”
“Fucillius!” yelled Neville, at just the same instant. The two spells met in midair, but Neville’s  immediately overpowered Hermione’s, causing her  to  fall  over backwards
 
from the  impact of an imaginary speeding bullet.
“Take  this!”  yelled  Harry,  taking  full  advantage  of  the  fact  that  Neville  was distracted from watching her fall. “Itamuda!” A spinning, black beam ejected itself  from Harry’s wand. It went right for Neville, and hit him… then passed right through him.
“What!?” yelled Harry, seeing Neville turn to face him. Was he a ghost? What was going  on?  Just  then,  Neville  began  flickering  and  going  all  staticy,  as  if  he  were  a projection, and then all out disappeared.
“Accio wand!” came a voice from behind Harry. He turned around just in time to see  Neville summoning his wand right out of  Harry’s hand. He quickly shoved the wand into his pocket, and grinned at Harry.
“Now whatcha going to do?” he asked, sticking his tongue our between clenched teeth. Harry was worried… he was powerless.  He had to  transform and hope that would take Neville by surprise  again…   but would that work? Would Neville  fall for  the same trick twice?
Suddenly, out of nowhere, Malfoy fell from the trees and pounced right on top of Neville, wiping the grin right off of his face. He subdued him on the ground, holding his arms down with his hands, and putting his knees on Neville’s legs.
“Thanks a million Malfoy,” gasped Harry, relieved.
“No problem,” said Malfoy, sounding like he was straining to keep Neville pinned down. “What are friends for? But, could you hurry up and take this guy out? He’s stronger than he looks… and he looks pretty strong.”
Harry  ran  over  to  Neville’s  pocket,  and  took  out  his  wand.  He  pointed  it  at
Neville’s face, and looked at the terror in his eyes. What spell should he use on him?
“Bona nox!” yelled Harry so  loud that some  birds flew away in the trees  above him. Black, lightning-like  beams  shot  out  of  the  tip  of  his  wand, electrifying Neville’s forehead, making it shake all over and pulsate, but only for a second. Then, the effect  of the spell finally came.
“I’m blind!” yelled Neville. “Blind!”
Malfoy  grabbed the  wand out  of  Neville’s  flailing hand and got  up off  of  him, wiping some sweat from his head.
“How long were you up there waiting?” Harry asked Malfoy.
“I’ve been there since the beginning of the match,” he said, watching Neville run around aimlessly and crash into some trees. “I’ve been sniping out people all over, taking them out quite easily. It was just by luck that you happened to need me right here.”
“Well thanks,” said Harry, looking over at Neville, and not seeing any of the boy he was as a first year anywhere on or in him. Harry ran over to him, and grabbed his neck, pinning him up against a tree.
“Was it you who tried to take Hermione’s bracelet?” demanded Harry.
“Wha- no!” gasped Neville, gripping his neck, and looking all over in vain for  a way out. He was at Harry’s mercy.
“Of course it was you!” yelled Harry, tightening his grip. “Who else here is slimy enough to try and pull a trick like that!?”
“I don’t know who is was,” choked Neville. “But it wasn’t me!”
“What’s going on here?” asked Malfoy, walking over.
“He tried to steal Hermione’s Bracelet,” said Harry through gritted teeth. “Or, at
 
least control someone else so they would do it.”
“What would he want it for?” asked Malfoy. “I mean, sure, it looks nice, but is it worth stealing?” Harry looked at him… he didn’t know that the Bracelet was actually one of the Ingredients in the Immortality Potion. Should he tell him?
“I  don’t  know,”  Harry  finally  lied.  “And  were  not  going  to  find  out  now! STUPEFY!” Harry aimed the beam right at Neville’s chest, and saw it instantly knock him out. He let go of his neck and let his unconscious body drop to the grass-covered floor.
“When did Neville get here anyway?” Harry asked Malfoy. “I didn’t see him come in at the beginning of the match.”
“I did,” said Malfoy. “From my spot in the trees. He came in a little after it began. It gave him a bit of  an advantage, really, since  he came in after  everyone else  had been fighting  for  a  while.  I  saw  him  take  out  everyone  in  his  path…  Tci,  Ak,  and  Aylar especially…. He certainly has become a better fighter, that’s for sure.”
“Yes, well, do the ends justify the means?” asked Harry. “Sure, Neville’s a better warrior, but at the cost of him being a Death Eater.” Harry thought this would be a good time to see just how much Malfoy knew. “Speaking of which, I haven’t heard about much Dark Activity going on lately… any idea what that’s about?”
“Yeah,” sighed Malfoy. “You-Know-Who hasn’t said too much about it, but he’s planning something big… I mean, really big.”
Harry swallowed hard. Should he have headed Dobby more?
“Well,” sighed Malfoy, breaking the awkward silence  between the two of  them.
“Yet again, it has come down to us.”
“Too bad we had to go and become friends,” said Harry, backing away a little.
“Yeah, too bad that I’m going to have to beat you,” grinned Malfoy.
“Oh yeah, what makes you so sure of that?” Malfoy raised an eyebrow.
“My new Polymagus form,” he snickered. “Prepare to be obliterated.”
Harry backed up against a tree and took out his wand, ready to deal with whatever it was Malfoy was going to become. Malfoy closed his eyes and threw his arms and legs out as far as they could go, spreading his fingers apart from each other and Harry assumed he was doing the same to  his toes  as well. Then, when he was as stretched out as far as Harry thought he could be without splitting apart, Malfoy just… fell over, right onto his back.
“Are you okay?” laughed Harry.
“This  is  just  the  beginning,”  said  Malfoy  in  Harry’s  head  through  Animagus telepathy. He began moving his fingers and feet in the most particular manner, so that his entire body was spinning around on the ground. Slowly at first, then faster and faster, until his animal powers began to kick in and he was almost a blur. Malfoy was spinning so fast, he was starting to dig himself into the ground, like some sort of human drill. Then, when he was about five feet under, the animal form appeared.
It looked like a massive worm more than anything. It was thick enough to fill the entire  hole,  but very short,  only  coming  about  four  feet  out  of  the  hole.  It  was a dark yellow all over, and looked extremely slimy. It had only a single eye, with a small spike protruding underneath it. Suddenly, many much smaller versions of the beast popped up all around it,  forming some  sort  of  grotesque  outline  of  the  monster.  All of  the  creatures
 
then started spinning, very slowly, but fast enough to make the ground shake.
Cracks  began  to  appear  in  the  ground  around  the  creature,  which  spread  out further  and further. Then, the smaller  versions  of  the monster  began moving around the large one, as if they were trying to create some sort of whirlpool, which was not too far from the truth. The beasts were moving so fast that the monster had turned into some sort of  living black  hole,  sucking  in  the  land  around  it.  Entire  trees,  bushes,  the  floor  and mounds of dirt were sucked into the moving pool of monsters and then devoured by them, just as quickly, by a series of horrible pokings from the protruding needles beneath their eyes.
“What  kind  of  animal  is  that?”  yelled  Harry,  holding  onto  a  tree  that  was beginning to be sucked into the monster.
“It’s a Surmanger!” yelled  Malfoy  back, telepathically.  “It’s a rare  desert  beast that creates black hole-like ground all around it, sucking in everything. The smaller ones eat the things it sucks in, and the larger on softens the ground, so it is easier to bring in and devour. It’s like some sort of horribly well oiled machine!”
“You’ve got that right!” said Harry, jumping off of the tree that he was previously hanging onto. It was sucked right into the belly of the monster, and eaten almost instantly. It was amazing, to see the smaller creatures peck at their victims so fast that it looked as though it was being disintegrated rather than eaten.
The Surmanger had now eaten most  of  the magical forest,  and Harry could see some of the Great Hall’s tiled floor  appearing beneath the grass that was being sucked up, though not for  very long since  it  was brought in just  as quickly. Professor  Flitwick had now revealed himself. He was flying around the room, moving unconscious kids high into the air so that they wouldn’t be sucked in and eaten. Harry decided to follow that line of thinking, and transformed his back into wings. He took to the air, away from the ground that was being quickly devoured.
“Stupefy!” yelled Harry, aiming right for the monster. The red beam shot right at it, but then, right before  it was about to  hit, the beast ate the ray of  light as if it were a bush.	“That	thing	can	eat	light!”
“Matter, energy, it all tastes the same,” telepathized Malfoy the monster. Now, all of the forest  had been consumed, and he was working on the actual Great Hall, sucking in the floor, ceiling and walls. Harry had to really struggle to stay in the air and not be eaten. He had to distract Malfoy somehow, to try and buy some time to think of something.
“Hey  Malfoy!”  yelled  Harry  in  his  mind.  “How come  you’re  only  one  animal now?  I  thought  you  Polymagi  could  combine  your  animal’s  DNA  to  create  a  super powerful monster.”
“We can,” said Malfoy  back, not  appearing to  have slowed down in his  rate  of consummation. “But this creature is powerful enough on its own; it doesn’t need any other parts to make it better. Just by itself, it is invincible.”
Suddenly,  one  wall  broke  out  of  its  connection  with the  others  and flew  over towards  to  monster,  revealing  the  outside  world,  and  some  of  the  Hogwarts  grounds. Flitwick had to do some quick moving to have the floating students dodge the flying wall. A second later, that entire wall was eaten, and the next three were on their way out. Harry didn’t see how he was going to win this one.
Harry did a few air tricks, just to try and put off the inevitable a little bit longer.
 
All the walls of  the room were gone, along with the floor.  Malfoy was now working on eating the magically free-floating ceiling, which would be gone within seconds. Once that was finally devoured, Harry found himself  outside on the grounds. Malfoy had eaten the entire Great Hall, and he showed no sign of slowing.
“Alright Harry,” snickered Malfoy. “I think I’ve done enough damage. It’s time to end  this  duel!”  Abruptly,  the  moving smaller  versions  of  the  monster  stopped  in  their tracks. Each of them appeared to be standing upright, like a soldier, with their spikes in the air. Then, they started furiously shaking the tips of their heads from side to side, and their spikes… fell off!
“What are you doing?” asked Harry.
“Underneath  those  spikes  are  powerful  vacuum-like  holes,”  explained  Malfoy.
“It’s time  to  suck you up Harry!” Indeed, where  the  spikes  used to  be, there  was now a small black hole on each of the smaller monsters. They all began moving in their circular pattern again, only this time, it was not the earth being sucked in, it was the air.
Harry instantly felt the new force pulling on him, and it was incredible. It was as if  he were  being lassoed  from  all directions,  and each one  was being pulled by a sumo wrestler.  He could feel  the air being sucked in all around him, along with a few clouds above him. It was becoming hard to breathe. It didn’t take Harry very long to succumb to the beast.
Harry  couldn’t  take  it  anymore.  Even  in  just  the  few  seconds  he  had  been struggling  against  Malfoy’s  new  version  of  his  monster,  he  felt  as  though  he  had  run several  marathons. He  just…  couldn’t fly  any more,  and he stopped flapping his  wings. Instantly, he began being sucked into the beast, faster and faster, until he was just about to be devoured….
“Draco  Malfoy  is  the  winner!”  announced  Professor  Flitwick,  quickly  moving Harry out of danger. He used his wand to move him high up in the sky, along with the rest of  the  kids,  out  of  the  monster’s  reach.  “Please,  Mr.  Malfoy,  you  may transform  back now!”
“Yes professor,” Harry heard Malfoy say. The Surmanger began spinning all over, so fast that it was starting to shrink. Once it was about the size of a person, it slowed down and Malfoy was revealed, back in his normal form, his arms and legs  spread out on the ground.
“Superb transformation,” commented professor  Flitwick. “But, next time, would you please not destroy the entire room?”
“I shall certainly try professor,” smiled Malfoy, though he looked as though he were  in  pain.  His  hands  we  on  his  stomach,  and  he  was  looking  a  little  pale.  Harry wondered if all or even some of what he ate was retained in his human stomach.
“Good  job  Malfoy,”  said  Harry,  offering  him  his  hand just  as  a  cool  end-of- summer breeze blew by. He took it and they shook. “You are a worthy opponent, that’s for sure.”
“I don’t believe I’ve ever seen a better  show of  sportsmanship in my entire  life than what I just saw now,” came a voice. Harry looked over and saw Dumbledore walking over to them.
“Professor!” exclaimed Harry. “What are you doing here?”
“I never miss  a Dueling Club meeting,” he said. “I just came down to  watch the
 
last part of the match. It seems as though I was the only person who thought to do that.”
“Everyone else was too afraid of getting eaten to come down,” grinned Harry.
“When did you get back from the Ministry?” asked Malfoy, looking a little better.
“As a matter of fact, I just got here. This duel is the first part of Hogwarts I have seen  all day. Though, I see  this  part has been destroyed.” He surveyed the area quickly, with a frown on his face. “We’re going to have to rebuild this entire room… and quickly too!”
“Professor,” whispered Harry. “There’s something I have to tell you.”
“Whatever it is, I’m sure it can wait, Harry. There is much to do.”
“I’m not sure if this can, professor.”
“Well then,” sighed Dumbledore, “tell me quick. There is much to be rebuilt, and many children to be revived.”
“During the  match,” began Harry,  making sure  that  Malfoy  was out  of  hearing range. He was over helping Professor  Flitwick enervate the unconscious kids. “During the match, I think someone used the Imperius Curse on some of the second years.”
To this, Dumbledore rose an eyebrow.
“What makes you think that?” he asked curiously.
“Well, at one point during the duel, Chris and Joe attacked Hermione. They were trying to  steal  her  bracelet.  But,  when I asked them  about  it  afterwards,  they  said  they didn’t  really  remember  doing  it  but  did  have  a  sensation  of  not  being  in  control  of themselves. Either  they were very convincing, or  it  really happened. I think the latter  is true in this situation.”
“What would they want her Bracelet for?” asked Dumbledore slowly. Harry didn’t know what to say. Should he tell him that he knew about the Immortal Potion, and all about the Sorcerer’s Stone and the Ring of the Ancients that he had?
“I have no idea,” lied Harry, playing it safe. He didn’t’ know what information he was supposed to  know and what he  shouldn’t know. He’d just  play dumb and safe  for  a while….
“Well, it is very easy to find out whether an illegal spell was used or not. All we need to do is take a trip down to the Ministry, and go to our suspect’s files. In there are all the spells they’ve ever used. If someone has the Imperius Curse recorded inside, they are the culprit.”
“Well, I don’t think you’ll have to search for very long,” said Harry. “Neville did it. I’m sure of it.”
“What makes you so sure?” questioned Dumbledore, crossing his arms.
“Well, for one, he is a Death Eater. He attacked me before, and he is Voldemort’s personal  slave.  I  think  that’s  about  all  the  evidence  anyone  would  need.  Why  are  you letting him stay at Hogwarts anyway? He’s a Death Eater! You should toss him away!”
“Yes,  I  know  that  that  would  be  the  most  logical  course  of  action,”  sighed Dumbledore. “But, Neville, deep down, is a good kid. I’m sure that if we give him enough time and support, we can win him back.”
“If you think so, professor,” said Harry, not sharing his belief at this time.
“Harry!” yelled Hermione, running over to him. “I just got up! You didn’t win!”
“I’ll leave you two now,” smiled Dumbledore,  patting him on the  shoulder, and walking off to Professor  Flitwick who still looked in a state of perfect happiness over the
 
excitement of the match.
“Yeah, Draco beat me this time,” sighed Harry.
“Draco?”  asked  Hermione,  scrunching  her  face  a  little.  “That’s  the  first  time you’ve ever called him that.”
“Yeah, well, first  time  for  everything,” grinned Harry, walking off,  for  the first time in his life, actually feeling happy that he had lost.
 
Chapter 12- Too Many Voldemorts

It took the entire  next week, and a few days into  October  to  finally rebuild the Great Hall. The house elves were working overtime, and they could not be happier. Every day Harry walked by, he saw at least a hundred of them, bucket in one hand, some sort of magical tool in the other, and a smile on their face. Sharing their enthusiasm was Malfoy. Everywhere, all that people  talked about was his mighty victory over Harry. Some knew the two of them were friends now, some didn’t. It didn’t matter to them, no one stopped praising Malfoy for his magnificent transformation and wishing that they had seen it.
However, once the week got closer  to Friday, the school-wide talk turned from the Dueling Club to the Wizard Duel Card Game Club. From what Harry had been hearing, there  would  be  many more  people  attending  this  week’s  meeting  than the  handful  that came  to  the  last  one.  Despite  all  the  hype, it  wasn’t really  the  meeting  that  Harry  was looking forward to, but the meeting afterwards, with Cho.
“Come on Harry!” called Ron, about an hour before the club would meet. “I want to get down there early, so we can have some time to practice.”
“Alright, alright,” said Harry, rolling off of his bed, and onto the floor. He put his book down, and walked over to Ron, who was busy adding a few final touches to his deck. They walked down to the common room together, where both of  them met a very angry looking Hermione.
“Where do you think you’re going, Harry?” she demanded, her arms crossed and a single foot stomping.
“Um, to the Wizard Duel Club Meeting,” said Harry, as if it were very obvious.
“Not this time,” she said seriously.
“What do you mean?” asked Ron.
“You’re not skipping this Prefect’s Meeting!” barked Hermione. “It’s the first one of the year, and it’s a very important one.”
Harry groaned.
“Oh come on Hermione,” he sighed. “Not today….”
“Harry,”  she  said,  “with  privileges  come  responsibilities.  This  is  one  of  your responsibilities. You have to attend these meetings, so come on.”
“But I’ll miss the Wizard Duel meeting!”
“If  you  hurry  up  I’m  sure  you’ll  have  time  for  both,”  said  Hermione  quickly, checking her watch. “But come on, we have to hurry now! Let’s go!”
“Fine,” sighed Harry, allowing Hermione to drag him out of the room. “See you later Ron! Don’t wait up for me….”
“Don’t worry, I won’t,” grinned Ron as they stepped out of the room. “Have fun!”
“So  what  exactly  do  we  do  at  these  meetings?”  asked  Harry  as  they  started
 
walking.

 


“You never did read your manual, did you?” asked Hermione, shaking her head.
 
Seeing  Harry  do  the  same,  she  continued.  “Well,  I’ll  never  know how you  got  to  be  a
Prefect. I mean, sure you’re grades are okay and all but-”
“Can you just tell me about the meetings?”
“Well, we do lots of stuff really,” she explained. “We talk about things to change around the school to make it better, give the opinions of our house classmates on issues,
 
nominate new prefects for next year, and more. It’s really quite fun!”
“I’m sure,” said Harry, rolling his eyes, just as they were passing the newly made
Great Hall.
“Wow, the  house  elves really did a great job on it,” smiled Hermione  with her arms on her sides. She stopped for a minute to just look around. “And to think, they did all this… with pay!”
“Yeah, that’s great Hermione,” said Harry, not sharing her enthusiasm for  equal elf rights. “But don’t we have to go to the meeting?”
“Look  at  how  beautiful  they  made  the  ceiling!”  gasped  Hermione,  not  paying attention to Harry. “And the walls, and the floor! Oh my! Just look at how well they did it, I can’t believe they were paid to do this! Oh and look at-”
“Hermione!” yelled Harry, bringing her out of her catatonic state. “You dragged me away from the Wizard Duel meeting, and after that, we had better go now.”
“Alright,” said Hermione, taking one last look and then walking back.
She lead the rest  of  the way, still  making a comment every now and then about house elves and such. By the time they reached the room, Harry was really wishing he was with Ron at the club meeting.
“Be sure to put your prefect badge on,” said Hermione, fixing hers so that it was perfectly  straight.  “If  you  walk  through  the  door  without  one  on,  you’ll  be  blown backwards fifty feet.”
“Wow,” said  Harry,  taking  his  out  of  his  pocket  and  attaching  it  to  his  robe, resisting the urge just to try out the trap anyways. He didn’t really like wearing all the time like  Hermione  did. Though he liked the honor  of  being a Prefect,  Harry wasn’t sure  he enjoyed all the power he had over the other  students, especially those  others  who were worthy of his position.
Once  Hermione  was satisfied  with  how Harry’s  badge  looked,  she  opened  the door and revealed the inside. To Harry’s surprise, it wasn’t elaborate at all. There were no posters, banners, fountains or anything in the room. All the was were several school desk chairs set out before two slightly larger chairs, with the words ‘Head Boy’ engraved onto one,  and ‘Head Girl’  engraved onto  the  other.  As soon  as  the  two  of  them  entered,  all twenty heads turned towards them.
“Ah, I’m happy to  see  that Harry Potter  has finally decided to  join us,” said the Head Boy,  Joe  Bob.  He  gave a weak smile,  and waved his  arm  in  the  direction  of  the chairs.
“Time to  sit  down, Harry,” said Hermione, nudging him in the side. The two of them took the only two chairs left.
“Now that were are all here,” said the Head Girl, Dora, “and since it is the first meeting of the year, I think we should all introduce ourselves, so that we can refer to each other by name and not just by house and year. So, let us begin with a roll call.”
“I will call  out  your grade, then house, then name,” continued Joe  Bob. “When you are called, simply say: ‘Here,’ I don’t want any ‘presents’ or other such nonsense, got it? Alright. Let us begin with,” he opened up a small scroll that was on the floor next to his chair, “Fifth Year Prefect for Gryffindor House, Aniruddha Gollapalli.”
“Here,”  said  a  tall,  Indian boy  whom  Harry  thought  he  had seen  before  in  the common room.
 























forever.

















 
“Fifth Year Prefect for Gryffindor House, Megan Williams.”
“Here.”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Zac Peeples.”
“Here.”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Holly Smith.”
“Here”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Andrew Arena.”
“Here.”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Andrea Anera.”
“Here.”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Slytherin House, Geoff Halliday.”
“Here.”
“Fifth Year Prefect for Slytherin House, Kush Raj.”
“Here.”
“Sixth Year Prefect for Gryffindor House, Harry Potter.”
“Here,”  said  Harry  quickly,  slouching  in  his  chair.  This  roll  call  was  taking


“Sixth Year Prefect for Gryffindor House, Hermione Granger.”
“Here,” said Hermione loudly and proudly.
“Sixth Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Paulo Calvacanti.”
“Here.”
“Sixth Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Lisa Turpin.”
“Here.”
“Sixth Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Ernie Macmillan.”
“Here.”
“Sixth Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Hannah Abbot.”
“Here.”
“Sixth Year Prefect for Slytherin House, Draco Malfoy.”
“Here,”  said  Malfoy,  about  as  enthusiastically  as  Harry.  For  a  fraction  of  a
 
second, Harry wished he were in Slytherin, so he could sit there next to Malfoy and have a good time, instead of sitting here next to uptight Hermione.
“Sixth Year Prefect for Slytherin House, Pansy Parkinson.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect, and Head Boy, for Gryffindor House, Joe  Bob BobJoe…. Here!” said the Head Boy, chuckling to himself. Harry rolled his eyes.
“Seventh Year Prefect for Gryffindor House, Casey Wilson.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Felix Malinkevich.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect for Ravenclaw House, Montana Sweet.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Shane Joyce.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect for Hufflepuff House, Tricia McMillan.”
“Here.”
 
“Seventh Year Prefect for Slytherin House, Max Kashdan.”
“Here.”
“Seventh Year Prefect, and Head Girl, for Slytherin House, Dora TheExplorer.”
“Here,” said the girl next to him.
“Excellent,” said Joe Bob, putting the scroll away. “Everyone is here.”
“Now, down to business,” said Dora. “We have much to discuss….”
“Ah yes, we have hundreds of topics,” added Joe Bob, hitting the armrest of this chair  with  his  hand and staring  blankly at  the  crowd  of  students.  Then, after  waiting  a second  or  two,  he  gave  a  small  cough  that  echoed  throughout  the  room.  “So…  does anyone have anything to talk about, because I sure as heck don’t.”
The Sixth Year Ravenclaw Prefect, Paulo, raised his hand.
“Yes!” said Joe Bob, pointing at him. “What is it?” Paulo stood up.
“I was just wondering,” he said quite loudly, “how does this school intend to deal with the letters from You-Know-Who, sent to us just a matter of weeks ago? Is the body of professors planning some sort of show of aggression to their senders, or are we going to take the passive side of the imbroglio and merely allow time to nurse this wound?”
“Well,  that  is  a  very  god  question,  Paulo,”  said  Joe  Bob,  clearing  his  throat.
“There  are  many things  that  are  planned  for  the  letters,  most  of  which  have happened already. Watch and you shall see.”
He reached into his pocket, and took out his letter  from Voldemort. Harry was shocked to see that he still had it, and even more so that it appeared as though it had been opened.
“You can make it into an elephant!” He threw the letter out in front of him so that it hovered in the air, and shot a magical beam at it. The letter  instantly turned into a two dimensional version of an elephant, and gave a roar. There was some scattered laughing.
“Or even an owl,” he said, magicking the letter again, and turning the elephant into an origami version of an owl. It gave a hoot and flew around rather awkwardly. “Look! A letter that carries letters!” There was a bit more laughter this time.
“And  don’t  underestimate  the  letter’s  power  as  a  mode  of   transportation,” continued Joe Bob, hitting the owl with yet another beam, and making it into a spaceship which he jumped into and flew about the room in. “Yeehaw!” This time, everyone except Harry laughed. He just didn’t see how Joe Bob could take such a serious situation like this and twist it into some sort of comedic act.
“And last but not least,” said Joe Bob, jumping out of the paper ship and into his chair “the letter’s natural power as fire  fuel.” He conjured a hovering fire, and made the ship fly right into it, causing a small but impressive show of fireworks to appear. To this, everyone except Harry stood up and cheered.
“So as  you can see,  Paulo,” concluded Joe  Bob, making the  fire  disappear  and putting the ashes from the letter into a small trashcan by making a magical dustpan appear.
“There are  many things to  do  with the  letter,  though I most  highly recommend the  last one.”
“Why didn’t you stand up, Harry?” asked Hermione when everyone sat down.
“I don’t know,” said Harry, staring at Joe Bob. “There’s just something about him that strikes me as… odd.”
 
“How so?” asked Hermione.
“Like how he still has his letter, and how he made what should have been a very serious question’s answer into a funny show.”
“Oh Harry,” said Hermione, “you really have to  lighten up. I mean, most  of  the kids kept their letters just for show, and comedy is a god way to escape fear. I think what Joe Bob did was commendable almost.”
“Whatever,” said Harry, turning his attention back to the Head Boy and Girl. They were answering another question that someone else had asked and Harry had missed. Then, just when Harry was beginning to  understand what the question was, he saw the trashcan that Joe Bob had put the ashes of the letter in glow a faint blue. The ashes slowly then rose out of the bin, and went under Joe Bob’s chair where they materialized back into the letter. Harry rubbed his eyes and shook his head, just to be sure that what he just saw happen had actually occurred. He looked around furiously, to see if anyone else had notice, but they were all nodding and commenting on the current topic. Harry looked at Joe Bob, and saw a small smile on his face… he had brought his letter back.
“Is there  a problem, Harry?” asked Joe  Bob, turning to  look at him. “You were looking around the room like a madman… is everything alright?”
“Well…” said Harry, his minds racing. Should he say he saw him bring back his letter? “No… everything’s fine.”

“That was certainly  a fun and interesting  meeting,” said Hermione  as  everyone was standing up and getting ready to leave.
“Yeah, sure,” said Harry, not really paying attention to her. He checked his watch. Good; if he hurried, he could still  make it in time for the Wizard Duel club meeting. “I’ve got to go, Hermione. See you later!”
“Fine, go have fun at your little kiddy game club,” called Hermione after him.
“Oh, you know you had fun cheering me on at the last meeting, Hermione,” Harry yelled back at her.
“Err… well, see you later Harry!”
Harry  ran towards  the  room  where  the  club  would meet.  As he  got  closer,  he removed his Prefect Badge, and put it down into the dark depths of his pocket. He didn’t want anyone there thinking they had to go easy on him because if they beat him in a match he’d take away points from their house. Shortly after, Harry arrived at the room where Ak and Ron were in the middle of a match to show everyone how the game was played.
“-and now I attack with my last Bewitched Tea Cup!” said Ron. They were using the holographic table for the demonstration, and Harry saw Ron’s cup spill some hot tea onto Ak’s deck. “And since my five teacups have a power of five each, you have to discard the top twenty-five cards of your deck! Take that Ak!”
“A good move,” said Ak as Harry sat down. He was amazed to see that there were at least  seventy people  in the room  this  time. The space  was almost  entirely filled, and Harry had to work his way through the crowd for a front row seat. “But not good enough.”
“What do you mean?” asked Ron. “I have twenty cards in my deck and five fighters out in play. You, on the other hand,  have four cards in your deck with no fighters out. Next turn, when my cups attack again, you’re dead! There’s no way you can win.”
“Ha, you shall see,” said Ak, allowing the table to give him his card. “For my first
 
action, I shall play the Increase Time Spell which gives me an additional action during my turn. I now have a total of three actions to use instead of two.
“And now, I shall play… Voldemort!” Ak threw the card out onto  the field, and when it materialized, there were a few shrieks of terror and surprise, though not too many. After all, most of the people here came from hearing about Harry’s victory over Ak, and knew from that that Voldemort was a card. “And you should know his special ability, Ron. When he comes into play, all of your cards are discarded.”
“No!” yelled Ron, seeing his five teacups shatter and explode. A nice little effect.
“Now you have nothing to defend you from his power,” grinned Ak.
“Nice try,” said Ron. “It’s not like he can even attack this turn! You just played him, and you can only attack at the beginning of your turn.”
“I already knew that,” said Ak. “And to  fix that problem, I will play, the Quick- Attack Spell!” Ak placed the spell onto Voldemort, and little winged shoes appeared on his feet. “Now I can attack you.”
“Once last thing, Ak,” said Ron. “I have twenty cards, and Vold- er, You-Know- Who only has a power of ten. I won’t lose this turn.”
“Ron you fool,” yelled Ak, looking a little  annoyed. “I’ve had this all planned out. I know that little thing, and to resolve it, I will play Unholy Strength Curse. It doubles one of my fighter’s power for a single turn. Now he has sufficient power.”
“So I…”
“Lose!” yelled Ak, having his Voldemort attack Ron and making his deck vanish. All the holographic cards on the table disappeared and the decks were released from their holders. “Good game Ron.”
“Yeah, I didn’t expect  to  win against you anyways,” sighed Ron, taking his deck out of the slot, not really sounding as though he truly believed in what he just said.
“Now!” said Ak to  the rest  of  the people  there. “Now that you all know how to play, it is time for the club tournament to begin! It will be a single elimination tournament, each of you will face one other, and the winner will go on.”
“Like how the Dueling Club used to do it!” piped a little voice from somewhere in the crowd. Harry thought is sounded like Joe.
“Yes, but not exactly,” said Ak. “You see, if I put all of your names into a hat, and read them all out, it would take far too long and this meeting wouldn’t be over until next week. So, to make all of our lives easier, I and the rest of my fellow heads of the club have already put all of your names up on this chart.” He waved his hand in the direction of a wall of the room. On it was a massive chart that had everyone’s name in individual boxes at the bottom. Connecting every consecutive two boxes was a single line, and another line went up that was perpendicular to that one. Connected to that line was another box which began the whole process over again, connecting every two consecutive boxes, until it went all the way up to  the  top  to  a single  box where  the  winner’s  name would be  put. It was like  a pyramid going up, made out of lines and boxes.
“You will fight the person in the box that is connected to yours,” continued Ak.
“Whoever  wins  will  have their  name  magically  put  in  the  box  above your  two,  and the process  will  begin again until  there  is  only  one  champion. Those  who lose  are  free  to roam  the  playing area  and watch. The holographic  table  will  only  be  used  for  the  final match. Are you ready to begin?”
 
“Yeah!” yelled the crowd excitedly. Ak smiled.
“Excellent.  Just  go  over  to  the  wall, check  the  chart,  and see  who you have to face. Good luck to you all!”
Harry, along with everyone else  in the room, ran over to  the massive chart and checked who his first opponent was. It was some kid who he had never heard of, and would therefore be hard to find. Luckily, the kid found him first. Sometimes, it came in handy to be popular.
“Are you, Harry Potter?” he asked. The kid was around three feet tall, and his head was about twice as large as his incredibly skinny body. It looked as though one good wind would knock him over and cause him to break.
“Uh, yeah. That’s me.”
The kid stuck out his tongue in quite an odd way, and scrunched his eyes closed and made some sort of squeaking noise which seemed to come out from his spine rather than his mouth.
“Great! Let’s play!” he squealed.

It was an incredibly easy game. The kid took forever to get a fighter out into play, and when he finally did manage to  put send out a house elf, Harry already had ten other fighters ready to go, and the kid had around five cards left in his deck. The house elf was quickly made history, and the kid’s deck count was zero.
“Good game!” screeched the kid as he gathered up all his cards and mushed them together into one giant pile.
“Yeah… sure,” said Harry, walking away slowly, back to the chart on the wall to see  who his  next match would be  against. He  saw that it  would be  against someone  he knew, Seamus  for  a  change,  and he  looked  around  the  mass  of  people  for  him.  After searching for a second, he saw that Seamus was readily engaged in a match that looked like a win for him. To kill some time, Harry decided to talk to Ak about some new strategies. He looked around for him, and saw, like himself, that he had beaten his opponent already and was just waiting around for his next victim to finish his current game.
“Hey Ak!” called Harry, stepping over a few kids to make his way to him.
“What’s up Harry? You beat your opponent already too?”
“Yeah, he was pretty easy.”
There was a few second of silence as they both surveyed the playing field.
“I can’t believe how many people came here,” said Ak, biting his bottom lip and nodding his head. “Sixty-four in all. The perfect number for a tournament.”
“I saw you in the practice game earlier,” said Harry, trying to find out some things about Ak’s strategy, just  in  case  it  came  down to  the  two of  them  again. “It looks  like you’ve changed your strategy quite a bit. No more Cloning Chambers or Flobberworms.”
“Yeah, I’ve completely  changed my deck around,” sighed Ak, rocking back and forth, his cape billowing. “I found my weaknesses from playing against you last time and decided  to  change  my  tactics.  Now,  instead  of  playing  with  Flobberworms,  I  just  use Voldemorts.”
“What’s so great about that card?” asked Harry. “I mean, it’s good and rare, but to base a whole deck around it….”
 
“Oh,” grinned Ak, “you shall see Harry… you shall see.”
“Hey Harry!” called Seamus. “We’ve got to play now!”
“Alright,”  said  Harry,  turning  around,  and  feeling  a  little  disappointed  that  he didn’t find out more about Ak’s deck. “I’m coming.”

Compared  to  his  last  match,  this  one  was  downright  difficult.  Harry  had  to actually  think  before  he  played  some  cards,  though  not  very  hard.  Seamus  was  just  a slightly  better  version  of  the  kid Harry  played last  time,  they  both  had about  the  same quality  cards.  A few hard ones  here  and there,  but nothing Harry  couldn’t deal  with by playing a few Killing Curses or Stupefies. It was over pretty quickly.
“Good game,” said Harry as his phoenix delivered the last blow to Seamus’ deck.
“Yeah yeah,” he growled back, looking down at the ground and gathering up his scattered  cards.  Harry  shrugged,  stood  up,  and walked  over  to  the  chart  which  already showed that he was the winner of the last match.
“Three more to go,” said Harry to himself as he looked at the chart and saw that he was in the quarterfinals. According to the table, his next opponent was some other kid, Susej Tsirch. “Weird name.” He looked around for a weird looking kid to match the name, but saw no one.
“Are you Harry Potter?” whispered a kid behind Harry. He turned around, and saw another student that looked almost exactly like his first opponent. But this one was a little bit  taller,  a ghostly pale  all over, shivering slightly, and appeared to  be on  the  verge of tears. He was also holding a small box which Harry assumed contained his cards.
“Yeah,” said Harry, eyeing him suspiciously, and trying not to speak too loud. It seemed as though even if he talked too  much the kid would explode into a million pieces.
“Are you okay?” To this comment, the kid dropped his box of cards, and they spilled all over. He scrunched his eyes up and made his hands into fists.
“Why… does…  everyone…  ask…  me…  if…  I’m…  okay?” he  whispered.  He began shaking furiously all over, and Harry wondered if he was going to go into a spasm. Just when Harry was about to call for help, the kid threw his hands into the air and ran out of the room, screaming and running over everyone’s heads.
“Wow,” said Harry as everyone returned to their games after that little moment of insanity. “These new kids are really weird.” He turned back to the chart, and saw that it had declared him the winner. Harry’s name moved up into the next box and showed his next opponent.
“Aylar,” hissed Harry. “That little cheater and card counterfeiter is going to pay.” Harry scanned the room  for  any sign of  where he was, and caught sight of  him off  in a corner. Harry stepped over a few people and cards to  make his way over to  him, just in time for the match’s end.
“Another ten points of damage to you,” smiled Aylar, finishing off his opponent. Now, Harry saw that he had put the money he made from selling cards to use. He had rings all up and down all of  his fingers that shone all the colors  of  the rainbow. His robe was made of a thin and silvery cloth that looked finer than silk, but harder the steel as it made a clanking  noise  when  it  touched  the  floor.  His  hair  was  done  up  in  a  very  interesting fashion: it  was highlighted gold all over, and he had his bangs come  down to  cover one eye. He looked more like he was the evil mastermind of a horrible company than a second
 
year student.
“You ready to play, Aylar?” asked Harry, still scanning him.
“It depends, are you ready to be my next victim, Harry?” smiled Aylar, moving his hand in a circular motion and having all the cards float up to it. He pushed his old opponent aside magically and beckoned Harry to sit.
“Nice rings,” said Harry, sitting down and shuffling his deck.
“I couldn’t say the same for-” said Aylar, before he actually looked at Harry’s. He stopped shuffling his cards, and became entranced with Harry’s rings. He didn’t move at all, he didn’t even blink.
“What?” asked Harry after Aylar’s staring was beginning to creep him out.
“Wha- oh! Nothing…” said Aylar, shaking his head an coming back to reality. Did he know what Harry’s Ring was? “But where on Earth… where did you get that ring?”
“You mean this clear one?” asked Harry, setting his deck down.
“No no!” hissed Aylar, waving his arm. “The other one… the skull one.”
“Oh, I… uh… picked it up in a shop,” said Harry, drawing his opening hand and trying to enjoy the moment in which he had something Aylar wanted and could not have, no matter how many cards he counterfeited.
“What shop did you-”
“Can we just  get on with the game,” interrupted Harry. “This is  match is  in the semifinals after all.”
“Yeah, alright,” said  Aylar, setting  his  deck  down, and summoning his  opening cards to his hand telekinetically. “Let’s get started.”
“And you can go first.”
“No, you go first.”
“No, you.”
“No, you.”
“No, you!”
“No, you!”
“No, YOU!”
“Fine!” said Aylar, putting his hands up into the air. “I’ll go first…. That will make you lose faster.” He laughed and made the top card of his deck float to his hand. “And for my first action,” Harry noticed that there was a group of people gathering around them, “I will play… heh, how about this? Harry Potter!” Aylar threw his card onto the playing field, and indeed it was a Harry Potter card.
“I’m a card!?” gasped Harry. “Let me see that!” He picked the card up off of the ground, and read it  over.  “Well,  at  least  I’m a pretty  good  card…  though this  one  is  a counterfeit version.” He slapped the card back onto the ground, and squinted at Aylar. He merely shrugged.
“Enh,” said  Aylar. “Most  of  my cards  are  fake  but…  so  are  most  of  the  kid’s here.”  He  straightened  his  card  out,  placed  it  back  on  the  ground,  and  returned  to examining his hand. “And for my next action, I will play a Merfolk.” He set the card down, and Harry  wished  they  were  playing on  the  holographic  table  so  he  could  see  himself interact with Aylar’s other cards. “Your turn.”
“I know,” said Harry, drawing his card, and looking at his hand. An Electo  Poli spell, a Stupefy, another Stupefy, a phoenix, a house elf, and a Hippogriff. Not too bad, not
 
great either though. “I’m going to play a phoenix for my first action, and for my second, I
will Stupefy myself!” Harry put the cards out.
“What do you mean, Stupefy yourself?” asked Aylar, playing with his rings.
“I mean I’m going to  Stupefy your Harry Potter  card,” said Harry, throwing the
Stupefy spell card onto him. “And he can’t attack me next turn and kill my phoenix.”
“Nice  move,” said Aylar, beginning his  turn. “You’ve played the  best  of  all  my opponents so far… not that that’s saying much.” He looked around the crowd around them and glared at his previous opponents who all hid their faces. “Anyway, I will of course not attack your phoenix with my Merfolk since its power is much higher. But, I will, for my first action, play Call of the Ocean.”
“What’s that do?” asked Harry.
“It’s pretty nice, actually,” smirked Aylar. “I discard one Merfolk in play to search my deck for five other Merfolk and put them into play.” He tapped the one he had in play with his finger and it flew over to Aylar’s discard pile. Once he did that, he made his deck glow bright, and five new Merfolk cards shot out from inside and into play. Harry noticed that each one had an ‘A’ in the bottom left  hand corner. “Now, I will play Grablulk, The Legendary Merchieftan. He doubles all of  my Merfolk’s power, but it comes  at a slight drawback. Every time one of  my Merfolk go to  my discard pile, I have to  discard cards equal to its power.”
“Sounds pretty bad,” said Harry, beginning his turn.
“Not  really,  it  usually  helps  more  than it  hurts.  Especially  when I  get  lots  of
Merfolk into play.”
“Whatever,”  said  Harry,  drawing his  card.  It  was  another  Electo  Poli.  He  was beginning to  feel  a little  nervous; he wasn’t getting anything really good that could help him. “I’m going to  Stupefy your Harry Potter  again,” Harry felt  so  awkward saying that,
“and then I’m going to play my Hippogriff.” He put the cards down, and ended his turn, not in a much better situation now then he was at the beginning.
“Alright then,” said Aylar, grinning. “Prepare to be destroyed, Harry. For my first action, I’m going to play Song of the Seas, which doubles the amount of Merfolk I have in play, and if I have a Grablulk in play, it quadruples my number. So, I now have twenty four Merfolk  in  play,  even  though  the  copied  Grablulk  don’t  retain  their  special  abilities.” Aylar  slammed  the  card  down  on  the  table,  and  twenty  four  blank  cards  magically appeared. Harry raised an eyebrow upon seeing them appear. “That’s a little  bit of my own magic. It makes it easier to remember how many I have.”
“Great,”  said  Harry,  feeling  like  he  did  at  the  last  match  when  he  was  facing thousands of Flobberworms. Where was Voldemort when he needed him?
“And then,” continued  Aylar,  “I am going  to  play Aqua Nero.  It  deals  damage, divided however I like it, to your fighters, based on my fighters’ total power, if they are Merfolk. Since their total power is forty, I will deal twenty to your Hippogriff, and twenty to  your phoenix, killing them both.” He put the card down, and Harry discarded his two fighters. Things were definitely not going well. “Your turn Harry.”
“Great,” he sighed, drawing his card. If he didn’t get a fighter, he was in trouble. He  needed  something  to  block  the  damage  that  was  going  to  come  to  him  from  the Merfolk. Harry breathed a small sigh of relief when he saw that he got another house elf… a very small sigh of relief. He played it quickly and then drew another card, with the hopes
 
of  getting Voldemort,  but he instead got  another  Electo  Poli.  Harry ended his turn in a very bad position.
“I expected  better  from  you Harry,” sighed Aylar as he drew his card. “I really did… but, oh well. First off, I’ll attack your house elf  with all of  my fighters, killing it, leaving you fighter-less. Then, I’m going to play the Ocean card. It transforms the playing field into  a massive sea, and increases  all of  my Merfolk’s power by one. Lastly, I will draw a card, and ask you to give up Harry.”
“Why should I?” he asked, feeling as though he should, but not really wanting to.
“Because,” whispered Aylar, leaning in, “if you don’t, you will receive a very bad defeat that could embarrass you.”
“More  so  than giving up?” asked Harry. “I don’t think so…  besides,  I can still
 
win.”



 


“Whatever,” said Aylar, leaning back.
Harry started t his deck. He had to get something good… he had to! But, the only
 
thing that could help him in this situation was Voldemort. As much as he hated even saying it, he needed that card! Harry closed his eyes, and reached for  the top card. He drew it, turned it around, and opened his eyes.
“Another Electo Poli,” sighed Harry, putting it into his hand. “I really have to get rid of a few of those.” Next turn, he was dead. He had no fighters left to block the damage, and it would all go to his deck. Unless he could destroy all of Aylar’s Merfolk this turn, he was doomed. But, there was no way to do that-
Suddenly,  Harry  took  a  closer  look  at  the  four  Electo  Polis  in  his  hand.  He noticed,  that  in  addition  to  dealing  two  damage  to  a  fighter  or  a  player’s  deck,  it  had another special ability.
“If the battlefield is currently water,” read Harry off  the card, “then Electo  Poli deals two damage to  all of  your opponent’s fighters  instead of  just  one.” Harry thought about this for a second. “Aylar, the Ocean car makes the battlefield water, right?”
“Yeah,” he said, tapping his fingers on the floor and looking very impatient.
“Of  course!”  said  Harry  to  himself.  “Water  conducts  electricity!  Thank  you Electo  Poli!”  Harry took  one  out  of  his  hand, and set  it  down into  play. “For  my first action, I will play Electo Poli! And since the battlefield is water, it deals two damage to all of your cards, Aylar! That means all of your little Merfolk with a power of two are gone!”
He raised an eyebrow.
“So, you killed my Merfolk,” said Aylar, discarding them.
“Aren’t you forgetting something?” questioned Harry.
“What?” asked Aylar is if he knew what it was.
“Your Grablulk’s ability, it makes it so  that if  I kill a Merfolk, your deck takes damage equal to its power. So you take… eighty damage.”
“So!?”  yelled  Aylar,  discarding  eighty  cards  from  his  deck.  “That’s  still  not enough to defeat me, I have a hundred card deck!”
“Yes,” grinned Harry, “but… I’m going to  play another  Electo  Poli  which kills your Grablulks too! Now, Aylar, you are defeated!”
Aylar just stared at Harry for a second, as if in a state of disbelief.
“You…beat… me?” he gasped, looking at Harry still, then turning to his cards.
“Yep,” said Harry. “I guess that shows… cheaters never win.”
 
“But I-”
“Try  getting  some  real  cards,  Aylar,”  spat  Harry,  gathering  up  his  deck,  and walking away quickly from that horrible  cheater, back to  the chart to  see  who he would face in the final match, though he didn’t have much doubt about who it was going to be.
“Ak,” said Harry to himself, seeing that that was whom he was going to fight. He turned around and saw that the group of students that were watching his and Aylar’s match were  now migrating over  to  the  last  few seconds  of  Ak’s. Apparently, the  chart  was so confident in Ak’s victory, it had already paired him up with Harry for the final.
Harry pushed his way through a few kids and got to the front of the pack. There, he saw who Ak’s victim was.
“-and you take… twenty damage, Ron,” smiled Ak, finishing Ron off. “And since you have only ten cards left in your deck, I win.”
The crowd surrounding the  match burst  into  applause, it  must have been a very good match. Harry wished he could have seen it. Ron and Ak shook hands, and they both gathered up their cards.
“Good game,” said Ron, looking pleased with himself even though he had lost.
“You fared much better this time than in the exhibition match,” said Ak, shuffling his deck back together. “But… not good enough.”
“Yeah yeah, I’ll get you when we play again.”
“Ak!” called  Harry  suddenly,  trying  to  sound  superior.  The  crowd  of  students turned to him, and became silent. “It’s time.”
“Alright then,” he  said, standing up. “Let’s go.” He  waved a hand toward to  the holographic-image-generating table. He began walking over to it, and the group of students followed. But, before  Harry went over there,  he wanted any sort  of  helpful information that he could get.
“Hey Ron,” he whispered quickly.
“Yeah?” he said, organizing the last few scattered cards.
“How’s his deck?” To this, Ron let out a big sigh.
“It’s really bad.”
“Bad?” asked Harry. “Bad as in… good, right?”
“Bad as in evil.”
“Evil? How so?”
Just as Ron opened his mouth to answer, Ak’s voice rang through the room.
“Harry!” he bellowed. “Are you ready?”
“Fine, I’m coming,” called Harry back, not feeling too  confident. As he walked towards  the  table,  the  crowd  of  students  parted  for  him,  making a  path  for  him  to  go through. It was as if he had a shield around him that pushed everyone away from him.
When Harry got to the table, he pulled out the chair opposite of Ak and sat down, staring at Ak’s smiling face. He was shuffling his deck, wearing a very distinct  and evil grin. Apparently, he was trying to intimidate Harry, and psyche him out or something. But, it  wasn’t his  expression  that was affecting Harry, it  was the  group of  students  watching them that was. There were so many of them, and they were all compacted into a very small space, all staring right at them… observing their every move. It was like Harry was under a microscope, and hundreds of scientists were trying to look in it at the same time.
Despite all of these distractions, Harry quickly shuffled his deck and put it into
 
the slot in the table. He saw Ak do the same, and the battle began. The table dealt Harry his five starting cards.
“Not too  bad,” said Harry to  himself, eyeing his starting hand. “A Hippogriff, a
Stupefy Spell, an Electo Poli, a Phoenix, and an Engorgio Spell.”
“Now, let’s see who goes first,” said Ak, tapping the table with his wand. A large and shiny coin  appeared in the  middle  of  the  table.  It looked  like  a larger  version  of  a Galleon. “Do you want wizard or ministry?”
“Huh?” asked Harry, very confused. “What are you talking about?”
“You know,” sighed Ak. “It’s like the Muggle version of heads and tails. There’s a wizard head on one side of a Galleon, and a picture of the Ministry of Magic on the other. Which side do you want?”
“Wizard  side,”  said  Harry.  “You  know  about  heads  and  tails,  eh?  Are  you  a
Muggle-born, Ak?”
“Well… yeah,” said Ak, not looking as though he were very comfortable  about talking about that issue. “You want wizard… okay!” He tapped the holographic coin, and it flew into  the  air, spun around a few times  and then landed back on the  table  in Harry’s favor.
“It is wizards,” sighed Ak, “you go first.” The galleon disappeared, and the game began. The table dealt Harry his card.
“A Lumos Spell,” said Harry to himself as the card appeared before him. After a few seconds  of  consideration,  he  figured  out  what he  was going to  play. “For  my first action, I’ll play a phoenix.” Harry grabbed the holographic phoenix, and placed it out on the  field. The usual burst  of  lights  came  and the  small  holographic fiery  bird appeared, flapping its wings and singing every now and then.
“Next,  I  will  play  my  Hippogriff.”  Harry  did  the  same  thing  he  did  with  the phoenix, and the very small version of the Hippogriff appeared, flying around the phoenix, and trying to get it to play. “Your turn.”
“Very well,”  said  Ak, getting  his  card.  “Time for  the  first  step  on  the  journey towards your defeat, Harry. For my first action, I will play Grindelwald, the Dark Wizard.” Ak dragged the card out onto the table and the small Grindelwald appeared. He looked a lot like Voldemort, around the same height and build. However, instead of being white all over,  he  was rather…  bumpy. He  had scabs,  scars,  boils,  and blisters  all  over  his  skin, nearly covering all of his body. In fact, the only thing that was entirely visible was one eye that had red veins popping out all over. He looked more  like something you’d expect to find in a toilet after you’ve thrown up in it than anything else.
“Wow,” said Harry, “I guess this game has been around for a while. Grindelwald died in 1945.…”
“Yeah,” said Ak, throwing off  Harry’s comment. “Grindelwald is  a very vicious card. At any time,  I can discard one  of  my fighters  in play to  return a fighter  from  my discard pile or my hand to play. It fits Grindelwald well, he was known for getting rid of old and obsolete followers in exchange for new ones.”
“Great….”
“Now, for  my second action, I’m going to play… the Sorcerer’s Stone.” Ak put the card into play, and a blood-red and shiny Stone appeared.
“Now what does that do?”
 
Ak gave Harry a very wide grin.
“The two cards I have in play now, Harry, make one of the greatest combinations in the entire game. You see, the Sorcerer’s Stone’s ability is, whenever one of my fighters would be discarded, I instead return it to my hand. Now, Grindelwald’s ability’s cost is that I discard one  of  my fighters,  but the  Sorcerer’s  Stone  prevents my fighters  from  being discarded. So, basically, I can put any number of fighters from my discard pile or hand into play during my turn.”
Harry’s mind was spinning. How could that good of a combo exist? Now, Harry would be unable to discard any of Ak’s fighters… how could he possibly win?
“That’s… good,” said Harry, unable to think of anything else.
“Your turn,” smiled Ak.
“Okay,” gasped Harry. “Well, since Grindelwald’s power is higher than either my phoenix’s or my Hippogriff’s, I’m not going to attack this turn.” Ak nodded, and the table gave Harry his card. Harry did a silent cheer.
“Yes!” he said to  himself  happily. “A Korosucide Spell! It discards one random card that my opponent has in play. Hopefully it will be the Sorcerer’s Stone….”
“Are you going to do anything?” asked Ak impatiently, leaning back in his chair. Harry shook himself back into reality. He had been staring at the holographic card for  a while and didn’t even notice it.
“Yeah. For my first action, I will play… Korosucide!” Harry dragged the card into play and saw that it had an effect  on Ak. He immediately sat up and put his hands on the table, knowing that it was a potential threat. Just as he did, the effect  of the Korosucide Spell  took  place. A small  mushroom  cloud appeared… right over the  Sorcerer’s  Stone, just as Harry had wanted.
“No!” yelled Ak. “You discarded it!”
“Sure did,” grinned Harry, watching the  Sorcerer’s  Stone’s  glow fade, and then move  over  to  the  discard  pile.  “And now I am going to  play an Engorgio  Spell  on  my phoenix,  doubling its  power  from  eight  to  sixteen,  one  more  than Grindelwald’s! Next turn, when I attack, he’s dead! How’s that for a comeback, Ak?”
Ak didn’t  say  anything.  He  just  let  the  table  give  him  his  card…  and then  he
 
smiled.



 


“What are you smiling about?”
“Nothing,” said Ak, letting his face become neutral again. “For my first action, I
 
will play an Apoyiosi Spell on Grindelwald here. That spell makes all damage that goes to him, come  to  me  instead. So, he’s safe  at least.  Next, I’ll play… a Summoning Charm, which lets me draw five cards.”
“Some nice moves,” said Harry, beginning to feel as though he was taking control of the board. “But, I don’t think they’re good enough, Ak.”
“Whatever.”
“It’s my turn now,” announced Harry, “and I will begin by attacking Grindelwald with my phoenix. Since  it  had the  Apoyiosi  Spell  on  it,  you take  sixteen  damage, Ak.” Harry watched as the top sixteen cards of  his deck went to the discard pile and couldn’t help but smile. He let the table give him his card: another Stupefy. Those wouldn’t be any good right now, though. Ak wouldn’t dare attack with Grindelwald anyways.
“For my first action, I’ll draw a card,” said Harry, not having anything better to do.
 
The  table  dealt  him  his  card:  a  Merging  Spell.  Now,  he  could  combine  his  souped-up phoenix and Hippogriff into a superior creature. “For my last action, I’ll combine my two fighters into one, using the Merging Spell!”
Harry  flicked  the  card  into  play, and watched as  his  two  minions  became  one. They both  shone  a bright  silver,  and then  flowed together,  like  liquid metal.  It became harder, and took shape. Color started coming back to the creature, and it gave off a single, bright  light.  What  was  revealed  was  a  very  interesting  beast.  It  had  the  body  of  a Hippogriff, but the wings and head of a phoenix. It didn’t look like it could really hold its own in the wild, but it was more than a match for Ak in this game.
“Your turn,” said Harry mockingly. Just three attacks with his new fighter, and the game was over. Harry could taste victory. Ak just sighed, and took his card.
“First,  I’ll  play another  Summoning  Charm,” said  Ak, getting  five  more  cards.
“Then, I’ll play a Banishing Charm.”
“What does that do?” asked Harry curiously.
“Well, I flip a coin,” said Ak, tapping the table with his wand and making the same, large Galleon appear again. “If it’s wizards, then you have to  discard all but one  card in your hand. If its Ministry, then I have to discard all but one card in my hand.”
“Sound like fun,” said Harry, not having anything really spectacular to lose.
“Let’s go!” cried Ak, flipping the coin. It shot up in the air again, spun around, and then landed. Once again, in Harry’s favor. “Oh no! Ministry!”
Harry let a small chuckle get out as he watched all but one of the cards in Ak’s hands soar over to  his discard pile. Harry heard the same from the crowd around him… Ak’s  luck   was  definitely   somewhere   else   today.  First   Harry   went  first,   then   the Korosucide Spell worked perfectly, and now he lost almost his entire hand!
“Too bad,” said Harry. “But, it’s my turn now. Of course, I will attack Grindelwald with my new Hippo-Phoenix, making you lose twenty cards, Ak.”
“Yeah yeah,” he sighed, “I know.”
“Next, I’ll take my card.” The table shot it at Harry: a Fotia Poli. “Excellent. Now
I can end this match even sooner.”
“How so?”
“I’m playing Fotia Poli now,” smiled Harry. “In case you don’t know, it makes you discard the top five cards of  your deck, unless  you have three  or  more  fighters  in play, which you obviously don’t.”
“Yeah yeah, I know what it does,” hissed Ak, watching five more cards leave his
 
deck.

 


“Now, I’ll just draw another card,” said Harry happily. He could have jumped for
 
joy when he saw what it was: another Engorgio Spell. Next turn, he was going to double his
Hippo-Phoenix’s power, and finish off Ak.
“My turn,” announced Ak with a very appropriate sad tone to his voice. He took his card, and retained his neutral face.  Harry couldn’t tell  if  what he drew was going to help him or not by his expression, he’d just have to wait and see.
“I’m going to play,” he announced, “the Kamikaze Spell!”
“What does that do?”
“Yet again, I flip a coin,” said Ak, making the Galleon appear again. “If it’s wizard side, you discard all but one card of your deck, if it’s Ministry side, I discard all but one
 
card of my deck.”
“Sounds pretty risky,” said Harry, suddenly getting a small pang of nervousness.
“Yeah, and it comes at a cost too,” sighed Ak. “I have to discard all of my fighters in play… so bye bye Grindelwald.” Harry laughed out loud as Grindelwald exploded in a pussy mess, and then hovered on over to Ak’s ever growing discard pile.
“You’d better hope you get Wizard side up,” said Harry, not wanting at all for that to happen.
“Believe  me,” said  Ak, tapping the  coin  with his  wand, “I am.” The coin,  once again, flew into the air, spun around, and landed with a burst of laughter and shock from the crowd and Harry.
“Ministry  side!” exclaimed  Harry, nearly falling over  in  his  chair.  “Ak! What’s going on with you today?”
“I… don’t… know…” said Ak through gritted teeth as he watch almost all of his cards fly on over to the pile of garbage. “I’ll end my turn early this time.”
“Whatever!” said Harry ecstatically, throwing his hands into the air. He couldn’t believe it. He was going to beat Ak… again! “I’ll just attack you with my Hippo-Phoenix and-”
“Not so fast!” yelled Ak suddenly.
“What?” said Harry. “I’m attacking you with my fighter. The game’s over! I win!”
“Not really…” said Ak with a really horrible grin on his face.
“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, beginning to get a little annoyed. “You have no cards in your deck! I have won!”
“No,  Harry,”  said  Ak  quietly.  “The  battle  has  just  begun.  For  you  see,  I  am playing… Hell’s Concoction.”
“How can you play that?” yelled Harry. “It’s not even your turn!”
“But  that’s  just  it,”  smiled  Ak.  “Hell’s  Concoction  only  activates  under  three distinct  conditions:  one, it  has to  be in your hand; two, you have to  have only used one action during your previous turn; and three, you have to have only one card in your deck.”
“Well,” said Harry, feeling a little nervous, “what does it do?” Ak’s grin became so wide, Harry thought it was going to fall off his face.
“First of all, it changes the game around so that it’s my turn. Then, it returns all of the cards in my discard pile to my hand, except for ten. Those go back to my deck.”
“What!?” yelled Harry among gasps of  shock and surprise  from the crowd. “No card can be that powerful!”
“Hell’s  Concoction  is  the  potion  that  brought  You-Know-Who  back  from  the dead,” whispered Ak, letting the table give him all but ten of his cards back. “Giving me a few cards is nothing compared to that.”
“That’s…not… fair…” whimpered Harry.
“Life’s never fair,” snarled Ak. “Anyway, back to  the game. It’s my turn and I’ll start off my playing an Increase Time Spell. Now I have three actions. For one of them, I’ll play another Sorcerer’s Stone, and for another I’ll play another Grindelwald.”
Ak threw the  two  cards  out  on  the  battlefield,  really  enjoying  Harry’s  face  of
 
terror.

 


“And now I will play another Increase Time Spell, and using one of those new two
 
actions, I’ll play a Voldemort.” There were a few screams, but not from seeing Voldemort
 
appear on the field, just from hearing Ak say the name. “Oh, and by the way, Voldemort kills your little Hippo-Phoenix with his ability.”
“Yeah, I know,” spat Harry, watching his  fighter  die  and then move on into  his discard pile.
“Now,  using   Grindelwald’s   ability,   I’ll   discard   Voldemort,   to   put   another Voldemort from my hand into play! But, thanks to Mr. Sorcerer  Stone over here, the one I discarded stays in play.” The other Voldemort appeared next to the other one, and the two glared at each other, as if trying to prove that only one of them was the real one.
“What!” yelled Harry suddenly. “You have two Voldemorts!” Ak smiled.
“I have more than two Harry… I’ll ‘discard’ the two I have in play now to play two more Voldemorts! What are you going to do now!?”
Two more  Voldemort’s  materialized  on  the  field,  and it  was far  too  many for Harry. He  might  have been  able  to  deal  with one…  maybe even two,  but four…?  How could  anyone  beat  that?  The  four  Voldemort’s  appeared  to  be  furious  at  each  other. Apparently, they did not like the idea of there being more than one of themselves.
“And now… Harry… it’s time for you to lose.”
“How so?” questioned Harry, feeling like he wanted to tear out all of his hair.
“I shall  play…  The  Dark  Mark  card!”  Ak  slammed  it  down  on  the  table,  and Voldemort’s  symbol,  the  skull  with the  snake going through the  mouth appeared a foot above  the  table,  spinning  around  and  giving  off  green  smoke.  Some  of  the  younger students screamed and squealed at the sight of it.
“What does it do?” demanded Harry nervously.
“Shh!” said Ak. “What and see!”
Harry looked at the table, and saw that the four Voldemorts were looking at the
Dark Mark, fascinated with its being there.
“What are they doing?”
“They are performing the Dark Mark’s ability,” whispered Ak, watching them. “It is only activated when there are four Voldemorts in play.”
“But what does it do?” asked Harry again.
“Oh, it deals one thousand damage to you,” said Ak as if it were nothing.
“One thousand damage!” yelled Harry.
“Shh!” said Ak again. Now, the four  Voldemorts  were walking over to  the Dark Mark and they spread out around it, making a square if they were connected. Each of them raised their wands to the Mark, and a red beam shot out of each, hitting it. It glowed red, getting darker and darker every second, until it was suck a dark red it was almost black.
Then, suddenly, the Dark Mark exploded. But, this wasn’t a normal explosion with gas and smoke, this explosion made skulls, skeletons, spirits, eyes, body parts, everything fly  out  of  the  Mark,  each  thing  giving off  unearthly  screams.  Now, the  older  students joined the younger ones in giving yelps and hiding.
The  explosion  filled  the  entire  table,  and  it  continued  for  a  while.  But,  it eventually did clear, and when it did, all of  Harry’s deck was in the discard pile, and the four Voldemort’s had their arms crossed and were smiling.
“I… lost…” said Harry to himself.
“Yes… yes you did,” said Ak, grinning.
Just then the crowd around the table burst into applause and cheers. Apparently,
 
they had all loved Ak’s spectacular comeback and wanted to show him just how much they liked it, especially since Harry had beaten him last time.
“Hooray for  Ak!” they all yelled, patting him on the back and cheering him on. The students gathered around him until the inevitable came, and Ak was lifted on top of all of their shoulders, smiling and cheering along with them. The group of students, with Ak on top as if he had scored the winning touchdown for a football game, marched around the room a few times and then left, leaving Harry all alone, except for his cards… and Ron.
“You played well,” said Ron, patting Harry on the back.
“Yeah yeah, whatever,” said  Harry  quickly,  taking his  deck  out  of  the  slot  and beginning  to  feel  really  terrible.  Losing  the  Dueling  Tournament  or  the  Wizard  Duel Tournament wasn’t so  bad if  it  was only one,  but both? Two big losses  on  top  of  each other? It was enough to depress even the happiest of men. “I’ll beat him next time.”
“Sure you will,” said Ron, walking his friend out of the deserted room. “It was a great game though, a really spectacular comeback. I mean, no one… no one ever expected him to play that-”
“Okay Ron!” said Harry, putting his hand up in front of Ron’s mouth.
“Yeah, sorry,”  said  Ron,  clearing  his  throat  and continuing to  walk out  of  the
 
room.

 


“There you are!” came a very nice  voice  from  just  ahead. Harry looked up, and
 
saw Cho in front of them. “I thought you’d never come out of that room! I looked all over for  you  in  that  crowd  that  just  came  by! But,  here  you  are,  so…  are  you  ready  to  go Harry?”
 
Chapter 13- Extreme Quidditch

Harry looked up at Cho and immediately, his spirits rose. She was the only thing that could truly cheer  him up after  miserably losing the  final match. She alone  had the power to make his spirit dance.
“Well…?” she said again, looking ravishing. She looked more like a goddess than a human; she gave off some sort of aura of wonderfulness wherever she went. Tonight, she was  wearing  a  very  tight  silvery  shirt  that  was  encrusted  with  what  appeared  to  be thousands of  little  diamonds. Her  pants were  actually rather  plain in comparison  to  her top; blue bellbottoms with a few flower patches on them, and her hair was not done up in any particular manner, just down and looking long. But, Harry didn’t mind at all. For all he cared, she could have worn a paper bag and she still  would have been the most beautiful creature on Earth.
“Hello! Earth to Harry!” said Cho, waving her hand on front of Harry’s face. Harry quickly shook  himself  back into  the  real  world, still  wondering how someone  like  her could possible like him.
“Oh yeah, I’m ready to go,” said Harry quickly, beaming.
“Excellent,” smiled Cho.
“I’ll see you later, Ron,” said Harry hastily, running up to Cho and blindly waving to his friend.
“Yeah,  see  you,”  said  Ron  back,  sprinting  off  in  the  direction  of  what  Harry thought was where Ak and his group of new fans went.
“I’ll  be  right  back  Cho,”  said  Harry.  “I just  have  to  change  out  of  my  school clothes quickly.”
“Alright,” she said, her arms crossed. “I’ll be right here when you come back.”
“I’ll be back before you know it,” said Harry, running off as fast as he could, all the way back to the Gryffindor Common Room.
“Hey, tough luck there Harry,” said Chris when Harry arrived. He and just a few others were there. Except for a few occasions, this was the emptiest Harry had ever seen the Common Room. “Too bad about your game.”
“Yeah yeah,” said Harry, throwing him off,  and sprinting to  his dorm room. He quickly tossed of his black school robe, and threw it on his bed. He ran over to the mirror, tidied up his hair to  the best of  his ability, and went back downstairs. He opened up the door that lead to the rest of the school, and heaved a sigh.
“Oh no,  not  now!” yelled  Harry  to  himself.  He  looked  in  front  of  him,  to  the staircases that were usually laid out in some sort of logical pattern. But tonight, they were feeling adventurous, and now… now there was no rhyme or reason to their layout. Some stairs  were twisting and turning, looping around others; some  were flipped left  or  right, and others  were  even totally upside down. “Now how am I going to  get  back to  Cho in time?”
Harry looked around desperately for a staircase that was walkable and found one that headed off  in  a direction  that he  had never  been  to  before.  Harry ran down it,  and arrived at a very old looking and decrepit door. He opened it quickly, and found himself in a dark corridor. But, there was a dim light at the end, and it was the only path that he could take, so Harry ran down it, not having a clue where he was going.
 
He soon arrived at the end of the tunnel, and it was lit by a single, flickering light bulb that appeared as though it was going to  burn out any second. In front of  him, there were three tunnels, each with a wooden sign above it.
“Headmaster, Death, and Main Corridor,” read Harry. “Well, I don’t think I’ll take the  Death  hallway, and Headmaster  seems  like  one  for  Dumbledore,  so  I’ll  take  Main Corridor. Maybe that will take me where I want to go.”
Harry ran down the slightly brighter tunnel, but not for  long, and ended up right where the sign had said: The Main Corridor, where the rest of the hallways in the school spread out from.
“Good, I can find my way from here,” said Harry to  himself. He looked behind him to  see  the tunnel that had brought him here, but where he came out, there  was now only a wall. “What!? I could’ve sworn that it was here a second ago.”
Harry examined the wall, but couldn’t find a single opening in it. He put his hand up to  the  wall, and nearly  yelled  out  in surprise.  His  hand went right  through the  solid brick! It was a interesting feeling and sight having your hand move through the wall as if it were made out of liquid.
“I wonder  how many of  these  little  passageways  there  are  in  this  place,”  said Harry to himself, happy that he had found one of Hogwart’s many secrets. “I’ll explore it later, got to go see Cho now.”
“Absolutely  not!”  came  a  very  loud  voice  that  made  Harry  jump.  At  first,  he thought it  was from  someone  who was reading his  his  mind and telling  him not  to  go. Then, he saw that is was coming from one of the rooms in the hall. Harry crept up next to the one that the voice was coming out of and listened through the slightly opened door.
“Sir,” came  another  voice,  much quieter.  It sounded very familiar. “You should keep your voice down, a student may hear you.”
“Nonsense,” came  the  first  voice,  slightly quieter  this  time.  This one  was also familiar, even more so. “All of them are busy praising the new Ak kid for his victory over Harry.”
Just  when  Harry  heard  his  name  said,  he  immediately  knew  who  that  voice belonged to  and was surprised he didn’t recognize it  sooner. It was Dumbledore! But… how did he know Ak had beaten him? He wasn’t at the room when the club was meeting.
“But, you still haven’t gotten it yet, have you?” came the other voice.
“No,” said Dumbledore.  “You-Know-Who  has evaded me quite  well, and I have been unable to get the Item from him. But I will get it eventually.”
What was Dumbledore talking about? What did Voldemort have… and why was he referring to him as ‘You-Know-Who’? Harry thought that Dumbledore of all people would call Voldemort by his real name.
“So he still has the Legendary Ingredient?”
“I’m afraid so,” sighed Dumbledore.
So  it  was true! Dumbledore  was trying to  get  the  Ingredients  for  the  Immortal Potion away from Voldemort so he couldn’t make it. But, evidently Voldemort already had one, so the wizarding world was in trouble right now.
“Well…. Yeehaw,” said the other voice. Just from that one word, Harry figured out who the other  voice  was. It was Professor  Quirrell.  Well,  at least  he knew for  sure now that this Quirrell was definitely on the good side.
 
“Anyway,” said Dumbledore, “we both have lots of work to do, I think we should cut this meeting short and go back to our labors.”
“Agreed,” said Quirrell. Harry heard them starting to walk out, and began to panic. How could he hide? Then he remembered his Animagus Invisibility Ring! Harry quickly transformed his entire body into the Gryffin, just when the two of them walked out. Harry froze  for  a second when he saw them exit  into  the hall, and stand right in front of  him. Even though he knew he was invisible, it was still eerie to have them both right there, and not see him. He still felt as though he was going to be caught. Harry held his breath, could feel his heart pounding in his chest, and tried not move at all.
“See you later, Headmaster,” said Quirrell.
“Yes, indeed,” said Dumbledore.  Then, he  looked  in Harry’s direction.  “Wait a minute…”  Harry’s  heart  was  beating  a  mile  a  second,  Dumbledore  was  walking  right towards him!
“What is that?” he said again, this time looking directly at Harry. He bent over and put  out  his  arm  out,  extending  it  right  at  him.  Harry  closed  his  eyes,  waiting  for  the inevitable….  He  could  feel  his  entire  body going  cold  already, awaiting the  impact  of Dumbledore’s hand on his face.
“Ack!”  yelled  Dumbledore,  peeling  something  off  of  the  wall  and  holding  it between his fingers. “Bugs on the castle walls! I need to get Filch to clean this place more thoroughly.”
Harry  breathed  the  biggest  sigh of  relief  that  he  had ever  done  in  his  life.  He opened his eyes and waited until both Dumbledore and Quirrell were out of sight, and then a little while longer, just to be safe, until he finally turned back into his normal form.
“Oh man,” said Harry, checking his watch. “I have to get back to Cho!” Harry ran as fast as he could all the way back to where she was waiting for him outside the Wizard Duel Club room.
“There you are!” yelled Cho. “What took you so long!?”
“Staircase trouble,” panted Harry, out of breath.
“Well, we’ve got to really hurry now! Let’s go!”
“Alright,” said  Harry  when he  finally  caught his  breath,  “where  are  we going tonight?” As soon as these words left his mouth, Harry felt a small pang of guilt. So far, it had been Cho who had been planning all of their little excursions; he had never helped in any way. But, Cho didn’t seem to mind at all. In fact, she was smiling.
“Oh… some place I think we’ll both enjoy,” she said as they reached the doors to exit the school. Harry quickly ran ahead and opened the door for her and presented the way with his arms.
“What are you doing?” asked Cho when she saw Harry.
“Um…  holding  the  door  for  you,”  said  Harry,  getting  up  from  his  bent  over position.
“Well… don’t,” said Cho, looking quite serious.
“Uh, why not?” asked Harry, letting the door close behind him.
“Well… err…” stuttered  Cho. “Well, I just  don’t think it’s  right that you think you have to treat me differently just because we are different… well, you know.”
“Yeah,” said Harry quickly, not really knowing what to  think. Shouldn’t he treat her differently? Cho walked forward and opened the door herself, Harry followed behind.
 
“I  thought  your  game  may  go  late,  so  I  didn’t  want  to  rent  a  broom  since  I
wouldn’t know what time to tell him to come,” said Cho when they were outside.
“So, how are we going to get there?” asked Harry.
“With  our  own  brooms,”  said  Cho,  moving  to  the  side,  and  revealing  Harry’s
Firebolt and Cho’s… Firebolt?
“I didn’t know you had a Firebolt too!” said Harry, running towards his broom that was hovering slightly off of the ground.
“Well, I recently came into a large sum of money,” smiled Cho, “and I couldn’t think of  a better  way to  spend it then on a Firebolt. Now maybe I can keep up with you when we play again.”
“Oh, you kept up with me  fine  last  time,” said Harry, mounting his  broom.  “In fact, if it wasn’t for Ak’s knowledge of the rules, we would’ve lost.”
“Oh Harry…” said Cho, mounting her broom and flying up with him. “You keep putting yourself down, you’re even better than you think.”
“So where are we going anyways,” asked Harry now that they were both in the air.
“Just follow me,” said Cho, shooting off far ahead of Harry, her voice trailing. Harry grinned and flew forward with a massive burst of speed.
“You can’t catch me!” giggled Cho, still ahead of him. She was a really good flier, and the Firebolt only enhanced her natural ability. Harry had to catch up to her somehow…
.
He got an idea. Harry transformed the top of his back into massive Gryffin wings and flapped them madly, easily and quickly overtaking Cho. Once he got right next to her, she gazed at his wings, and then let out a scream.
“AAAHHH!” she yelled. “Harry! What’s going on!” She began flying erratically from side to side and she lost her grip.
“Cho!” yelled  Harry,  spinning  around  and flying  down to  her.  She  was  falling faster  now, getting closer  and closer  to  the  ground… could Harry make it  in time? He flew down faster, putting so much energy into making the broom go forward that he felt as though he were running. He could just barely get her now… he had to just think of her as a Snitch!
 


tightly.




 
With this new thought in mind, Harry grabbed onto Cho’s shoe and held onto her


“I’ve got you!” he yelled down to her.
“Harry!” she yelled to him. “Don’t let go!”
“I won’t!” yelled Harry back. He gripped his broom now with his legs, and held
 
onto her with both of his hands now. Even though Cho was far from big, she was still not the  lightest  thing in  the  world  and was getting harder  to  hold  onto.  He  had to  think of something quickly!
“Cho!” Harry yelled down to her. “I’m going to let go!”
“What!?” she screamed back. “I told you not to let go! Don’t let go!”
“Don’t worry…” Harry said back, letting go of one leg.
“No Harry! No!”
“Don’t worry,” said Harry. “I’ll-”
Just then, Harry’s grip finally loosened, and he let go of Cho’s other leg.
“Harry!” she yelled as she started falling again.
 
This time, Harry was prepared. He shot down, right passed Cho, and then stopped in midair, just below her. An instant later, Cho fell down, right onto Harry’s broom, less than a foot above the ground.
“Harry!” she yelled, brushing her hair back.
“Yeah?”
“Nice catch,” she grinned.
“Thanks,” said Harry, flying back up next to Cho’s hovering broom.
“But, never do it again.”
“Sure thing,” said Harry, stopping next to her broom, and letting her get onto it.
“But you did scare me with those wings there.”
“I thought you knew I was an Animagus,” said Harry when they were back on their way. “After all, most of the school does from watching that Quidditch game.”
“Well,” sighed Cho, “I guess  I missed  that match, and no one  ever told  me my boyfriend could become a bird.”
“Well, a gryffin actually.”
“Even better,” grinned Cho.
The two  of  them  flew  on  at  a  regular  pace,  they  didn’t  want any more  falling accidents. Most of the way, Cho stared at Harry’s wings. Though, he couldn’t blame her: they were rather beautiful after all.
“We’re almost there,” Cho said a few minutes later. Harry looked around to see if he recognized where he was. There were lights and buildings everywhere, but Harry didn’t identify anything.
“Where are we?”
“On the outskirts of Hogsmeade,” said Cho. “The ‘less formal’ part of the town…. Oh! There’s  where  we  want to  be!”  Harry  looked  where  Cho  pointed,  and saw a  large circular building that looked like a slightly smaller version of a Muggle stadium.
“What’s in there?”
“The greatest game in the world,” said Cho looking quite happy.
“Better than Quidditch?” asked Harry, slightly appalled.
“Oh yes,” said Cho. “Definitely. Follow me inside, I’ve got reservations.”
“Alright,”  said  Harry,  wondering  what  game  could  be  possibly  be  better  than
Quidditch.
Cho did a fancy swerve down towards the ground, and Harry followed. They flew past the buildings and lights, and right above the heads of the mass of people below them, not to mention some other brooms flying by. Harry was amazed that all of this was hidden from the Muggle world. It must have taken some very powerful spells to pull it all off.
After  just  a few seconds  of  soaring through the  small  city, Cho stopped at the entrance of the stadium, and Harry did the same.
“We can keep out brooms here,” said Cho, propping hers up against a large wall that  had some  other  brooms  on  it,  though no  other  Firebolts.  Just  when the  tip  of  her broom  touched  the  wall,  a  small  hand erupted  out  of  it  and grabbed  the  handle  of  the broom, holding it securely in place.
“Those aren’t real hands, are they?” asked Harry tentatively.
“Oh no,” said Cho. “It’s just an enchantment, though a very secure one. But come on and put yours up, we’ve got to get going!”
 
“Alright,” said Harry, letting a hand grab his broom too. “Lead the way!”
Cho  led  Harry through a massive, semi-oval shaped opening in  the  side  of  the stadium. Harry saw that he and Cho were not alone going through, there were hundreds of other people all walking through the door as well, all talking excitedly.
“Where are we going?” asked Harry, trying to follow Cho through the throng of people, none of which he recognized from Hogwarts. All of them looked as though they were eighteen or twenty year olds, previous students, but not quite yet adults. Also, each of  them  appeared  to  be  punks:  varying  colors  of  spiked  hair  with  black  jackets  and sunglasses. Kind of like more extreme versions of Bill Weasley.
“To our seats,” said Cho, grabbing hold of Harry’s hand and leading him into the heart of the stadium that was filled with even more people, only slightly more organized into  lines  before  three  goblin  cashiers.  She  pulled  him  along  a  bit  more,  passed  the goblins, and through another massive, semi-oval shaped door.
The room  that  Harry  entered  now was completely  different  from  the  previous ones.  There  were  hundreds,  of  not  thousands  of  small,  skinny  cylindrical  posts  with  a different  colored  sphere  on top, popping up every few feet  that seemed to  fill  acres  of floor. But, the most surprising thing about the room was that there was not a single person in sight.
“What is this room?” Harry asked.
“It’s the Portkey Room,” said Cho, seeming as though she was looking around for something in particular. “From here, you are taken to  your seat by touching the correct sphere.”
“Well, which one is ours?”
“This one!” exclaimed Cho, pointing to a golden one that was right up front. “Top notch seats! I’ve had them reserved for  a while, just for  this occasion. Touch it with me and we’ll be taken there.”
Harry and Cho reached their arms out towards the golden sphere and touched it at the same time. Just when they did, Harry felt the usual Portkey Transportation feeling. It was as if there was a hook, just behind his navel, that tugged him into the sphere, a black oblivion forming all around him.
The nothingness lasted for only a second. An instant later, Harry found himself in a small, white room with one entire wall made of glass. Outside of the clear wall, Harry could see the entire playing field. On one side, there were three hoops of varying height, and the same on the other side. The field seemed very familiar….
“Wait a minute, Cho,” said Harry. “This is just a Quidditch field.”
“Well, not really,” she said.
“How so?”
“You’ll see,”  said  Cho. “Sit down, Harry.” She  waved an arm to  four  large  and comfortable looking red chairs that were lined up next to each other. Harry sat down in one, and he could still see the entire field. These really were good seats.
“How much longer until the game starts?” asked Harry, bouncing up and down in his chair, wondering what it was going to be like
“Well,  thanks  to  your  delays,”  said  Cho  sarcastically,  checking  her  watch,
“about… right now!”
“LADIES AND GENTLEMEN!” boomed a voice that was only rivaled in volume
 
by the giants. Even though the actual announcer was nowhere near him, the sound still blew Harry backwards into his chair. “WELCOME TO THE FIRST MATCH OF THE YEAR IN EXTREME QUIDDITCH!”
“Extreme Quidditch?” asked Harry, his ears ringing already.
“Yeah, it’s really cool,” said Cho on the edge of her seat.
“PLEASE	WELCOME	THE	VISITING	TEAM…	THE	LONDON LACERATORS!”
The crowd around the playing field burst into a mass of applause and boos as eight players flew out on the field, waving their arms madly and doing fancy midair tricks. Harry noticed  that  all  of  their  brooms  were  severely  damaged,  bandaged  up  all  over  with splinters  sticking out and cracks everywhere. Each of  the players  were wearing massive gloves  and hockey  masks,  prevented  Harry  from  seeing  their  faces.  But,  through  their black  and metallic  uniforms,  Harry  could  see  that  their  arms  were  heavily scarred  and bruised all over.
“Why are there eight players?” asked Harry, noticing that there was one more than
 
usual.

 


“Well, there’s the normal seven players,” said Cho, leaning closer to Harry so he
 
could hear them, “and then there’s a Placer. At first, he plays as a mixture of a Chaser and a Beater, but then, when a player dies, he takes over that player’s previous position.”
“Dies?” gulped Harry.
“Oh yeah,” nodded Cho. “In Extreme Quidditch, players do tend to do that. Most teams would like to have three or four Placers, you know, so that they can replace their other teammates after the first one dies.”
“Sounds horrid,” shuddered Harry.
“It’s great,” said Cho, turning her attention back towards the field.
“AND NOW… THE HOME TEAM! THE HOGSMEADE HELL-RAISERS!”
Eight more  players flew out onto  the field, wearing the same gloves and masks and the same quality brooms, only these ones were wearing red uniforms instead of black. Again, the stadium erupted into applause, only adding the already off-the-charts amount of noise that was going on.
“PLAYERS!  TO  YOUR  POSITIONS!”  thundered  the  announcer.  The  sixteen players shot over to their spots: the Keepers to the goals, the Chasers lined up in front of each other, the Beaters were above them, the Seeker was above them, and then the Placer was out flying around the field, ready for anything. Even though Harry couldn’t see  their faces, he could tell that the players were spitting and screaming at each other by the fluids pouring out of their masks.
“RELEASE THE BALLS!”
In  the  middle  of  the  field,  a  small  hole  opened  up  and  the  Quaffle,  then  the
Bludgers, then the Snitch shot out.
“Well,  other  than  the  Placers  and the  extreme  amount  of  violence,  the  actual game is not so different than regular Quidditch,” observed Harry.
“NOW! SET THE FIELD!”
All  of  a  sudden,  dozens  of  smaller  holes  appeared  in  the  ground  along  with another much larger one. Massive flames that went high above the stadium’s top poured out of the smaller holes, and a chained down Hungarian Horntail popped out of the larger
 
one,  gave  an  ear  shattering  roar,  and  then  beginning  to  spew  more  flames  all  around, making the air nothing more than one giant inferno.
“Okay,” squeaked Harry, slouching back in his chair from fear, “maybe it is a little different than regular Quidditch.”
“READY!…” boomed the announcer. “SET!… GO!
The effect of the announcer’s words was instantaneous. All of the players shot off in every direction, though mostly towards each other. Two of the Chasers on the London team  immediately  went  for  two  Chasers  from  the  Hogsmeade  team.  They  crashed  in midair, and there  was a fantastic  boom and burst of  fire. The announcer said something, but even his insanely loud voice was drowned out by the crowd that was now in an ecstatic frenzy.
“AND HOGSMEADE MAKES THE FIRST GOAL! ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY TO ZERO!”
“One hundred and fifty to zero!” exclaimed Harry. “But… they only scored one
 
goal!”

 


“Yeah, but the  rules  are  a bit different  for  Extreme  Quidditch,” explained Cho,
 
looking through the window. “Goals are worth one hundred and fifty points and the Snitch is only worth ten, but it still ends the game.”
“Why did they switch the points around?”
“Because if they kept the score for the Snitch the same,” continued Cho, “all the players  on the opposing teams would instantly go for  their  opponent’s Seekers,  and the Placers would be used up almost immediately.”
“Oh… ok,” said Harry, much happier that he was watching the game rather than playing in it.
Harry made attempts to see where the Quaffle currently was, but between the fire, smoke and dragon breath, it was impossible to see anything, except-
“AAAHHH!” yelled Harry and Cho together. One of  the players  on the London team had just crashed into their window. His face and hands were pressed up against the glass so hard that blood was coming out. But, he quickly pushed himself off and pulled his mask back down over his face.
“Sorry,” he mouthed to the two of them as he flew away, back into the game. The Hungarian Horntail shot a gigantic ball of  fire, molten rock and smoke right at him that knocked him out of the sky and then down to the ground. The London Placer quickly took his place, and the dragon gave a smile.
“You know Harry…” said Cho, scooting over closer  to him. “You know what all this fire, blood, violence and dragons makes me want to do?”
“What?” asked Harry, scooting in closer as well.
“It makes me want to…” said Cho, closing her eyes. “Kiss you.”
Cho moved in for the kill, and her target was Harry’s lips. But, this was one attack Harry did not want to avoid. He brought his face a little closer  to hers as well. He could feel their heads coming closer and closer together… then their mouths touched.
“Why thank you!” came a voice suddenly.
“That’s an odd thing to say,” said Cho.
“Uh… I didn’t say it,” said Harry, wondering what was going on. He opened his eyes and saw in front of him not Cho’s face, but a very massive and very round head.
 
“Ah!”	yelled	Cho,	scurrying	back.	“What	are	you	doing!?”
“Getting in on your little love-in,” piped the creature, smiling and battering his eyebrows. He looked almost exactly like the kid Harry had to fight at the Wizard Duel club meeting; big head and small  body, only  this  one’s  head was even bigger,  and his  body was even smaller.  He  had a tiny black jacket  on, and what appeared to  be  extremely  small  wings popping out of his back.
“What are you doing here!?” screamed Cho. “I reserved this box for Harry and me weeks ago!”
“Ahem,” squeaked another  creature  that looked identical to  the other  that came into view from behind one of  the other  chairs. “We also  reserved this  place weeks ago. You can check our tickets.” He handed Cho two small pieces of paper and she ripped them out  of  his  tiny hand. After  a quick examination, she  handed them  back to  him, looking venomous.
“And after all,” said the first one, “there are four chairs here after all!”
“Yeah,” sighed Cho, falling back into her chair and crossing her arms. “I suppose so.” The two creatures smiled at each other with their enormous mouths and sat down in the two chairs next to Harry.
“I just love… fire,” said one of the creatures, conjuring a bag of popcorn.
“And I love Quidditch!” squealed the one that was closest to Harry.
“Will you keep it down?” yelled Harry, putting a finger to his lips.
“Hey!” piped the one that was in the chair next to Harry. “Nice ring!”
“Yeah,” said Harry, quickly hiding his hand from sight. But, the creature followed his hand into the cushion of the chair. “Thanks.”
“How much you want for it?” interjected the other one immediately, jumping off of his chair and walking in front of Harry. He reached into his pocket, and took out a large sum of money. “I have hundreds of galleons….”
“No,” said Harry firmly. “It’s not for sale.”
“Are you sure?” asked the creature again, grinning and pushing the money further towards Harry’s face so far that it was in danger of going up his nose.
“Yes,” said Harry sternly, pushing the money back.
“Why not?” asked the other one curiously.
“It’s a… family heirloom,” said Harry quickly. “It has great sentimental value.” The creatures eyed him inquisitively with their massive eyes for a second. Then,
the one that had been offering him money put it all away, shrugged, and walked back to his seat, talking quietly with his friend.
“Is that really an heirloom?” Cho asked Harry.
“I don’t know,” shrugged Harry back. “For all I know, it could very well be.”
“What, did you buy it?”
“Yeah.”
“Cool,” said Cho. “You’ll have to take me to the shop sometime. It’s a really nice ring, maybe they have more of them.”
“Maybe,”  sighed  Harry,  highly  doubting  that  there  would  be  another  like  his anywhere.
“AND  LOOK  AT  THAT DRAGON  GO!”  continued  the  announcer.  “THAT’S THREE GUYS HE’S TAKEN DOWN TODAY!”
 
Harry returned to watching the game that now had several less people playing in it than before.  Harry tried  to  make  out  some  of  the  players  on  the  field,  but it  was even harder now than before, since there were fewer of them and they were more spread out, except for the ones that were engaged in individual fights.
“OH NO! AND THE HOGSMEADE SEEKER IS DOWN!…. WAIT A MINUTE! NO! HE WAS JUST GOING DOWN TO GET THE SNITCH! HOGSMEADE WINS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY TO ZERO!”
The announcer said something else, but it was quickly drowned out by the roaring crowd. Amidst the lowering flames and the leaving dragon, fans from the stands leapt out of their seats and down onto the field, congratulating their team by suffocating them with their bodies.
“Well that was a short game,” said the little person next to Harry, sounding a little annoyed and disappointed.
“Yeah, too  bad,” said Cho mockingly. “Why don’t you two leave now… go on! Shoo!” She waved her  arms furiously in the  direction  of  the  Portkey that brought them there.
“Nah,” said the one father away. “We’re going to stay here for a while, until the crowd calms down and we won’t get hurt if we try to leave.”
“Great,” sighed Cho. She leaned in closer  to  Harry and whispered,  “Now we’ll never get any time together.”
“Why don’t we just  go somewhere  else?” whispered Harry back, looking at the two little things run face-first into the window and then drop to the floor giggling.
“No, most  of  the places  are closed  by now, and the ones  that are open are just low-life taverns.”
“How about we go back to  Hogwarts, then?” suggested Harry. “Maybe, if  we’re lucky, no one’s out in the halls now. But, if there are some, we could just do this some other time.”
“Sounds better  than nothing,” groaned Cho,  standing up. She  turned  to  the  two little creatures. “Boys… it has been a pleasure, but I’m afraid we have to go now. See you later.”
“Bye bye!” they called back, banging their massive heads on the window.
“Freaks,”  muttered  Harry  as  he  walked  over  to  the  Portkey  with  Cho.  They touched the sphere together and were brought back to the same, giant room that had all the transports to the seats in it. Harry expected to see many people leaving now, but there was not a person in sight.
“Where is everyone?” Harry asked as they started walking out.
“What do you mean?”
“Isn’t everyone leaving now?” continued Harry as they passed the goblin cashiers, two of which were asleep. “I mean, the game’s over.”
“Nah,” said Cho, shaking her head. “Now, the fun’s just starting. The crowd will party with the winning team for hours.”
“So why aren’t we down there?” Cho looked at him.
“Trust me… you don’t want to be there.”
“Cho,” asked Harry when they exited the stadium through the huge open space,
 
“how do you know so much about this Extreme Quidditch? Have you come to these games before?”
“Only once,” she said, “to test it out. My friends, however, have been coming for a few months now.”
“Do they like it?”
“Well, they more like the fact that prisoners are getting their just punishments.”
“What?’ asked Harry, confused. “What does  Extreme Quidditch have to  do with prisoners?”
Cho stopped in her tracks.
“It has everything to do with prisoners!” she exclaimed. “Who do you think those people are playing on the teams?”
“Crazy people?” shrugged Harry.
“No. They’re  all  prisoners,”  said  Cho.  “Ever since  Azkaban was destroyed,  the Ministry  has  been  trying  to  find  out  new  ways  to  punish  criminals.  It  wasn’t  until Dumbledore suggested Extreme Quidditch that there has been a real good solution.”
“Dumbledore suggested it!” yelled Harry.
“Oh yeah,” said Cho. “It’s an ingenious thought, really. It punishes  prisoners  by making practically putting them  on  death row every game, it  gives entertainment  to  the people, and it brings in revenue for the Wizarding Government.”
“So Extreme Quidditch is still relatively new?” asked Harry, continuing to walk.
“Well, its only been around since the beginning of summer, so yes, I guess that constitutes as new.”
They had finally arrived outside the stadium and were at the wall were they hung up their brooms. Cho reached up and took hers down quite easily. As soon as she touched her broom, the hand holding onto it let go immediately.
“Go on,” she said, mounting her broom. “Get yours now.”
“Alright,” said Harry, reaching up to his. He grabbed onto the tip of the broom and tried to bring it down. But, no matter how hard he tried to pull the broom off of the wall, the hand would simply not let go.
“Err…. Get  down!” yelled  Harry, trying to  tear  it  off  of  the  wall now. He  was shaking the broom furiously, almost in danger of breaking it. However, the hand was not budging a bit.
“What’s wrong?” asked Cho, flying up a little
“My… broom… won’t… come off!” yelled Harry, still trying.
“Oh come on,” grinned Cho. “It’s not that hard.”
“Yes… it… is! It just won’t-”
Suddenly, Harry heard a very high pitched shriek ring out around Harry and Cho. He quickly let go of the broom, and looked around.
“What was that?” asked Cho, landing back on the ground.
“I don’t know,” said Harry quietly, taking out his wand.
The shriek  raised  its  ugly head again and Harry  covered  his  ears.  This  time,  it sounded much closer and was followed by a softer sound, like a cat landing on the ground.
“I think someone’s here,” whispered Harry, looking all around.
“Oh no…” said Cho, sounding nervous.
Once again, the shriek rang out and it was as if it came from right behind Harry.
 
He quickly turned around, and behind him he saw one of the little people that was in the box with him and Cho. They were the ones making the sound.
“Ack! Not you!” yelled Harry, putting his wand away and covering his ears. “Stop making that noise!”
The creature  gave a smile,  but this  time,  its  mouth was filled  with sharp fangs rather than normal teeth. It spread out its arms and flew right at Harry, utilizing its wings. The thing was much stronger than it looked; it pushed Harry over right on the ground and pinned him there.
“What are you doing!?” yelled Harry, fumbling for his wand.
“What…? Don’t you recognize me Harry?” grinned the creature. It put one of its tiny arms up to its face and then… pulled it right off, as if it were a mask. But, once Harry saw what was under the mask, the fact that he had worn a mask before  didn‘t matter. He tried to yell for help, but all he could do was say the name of the person whose face he saw.
“Wormtail…”
 
Chapter 14- Surprises

“That’s  right  Harry!”  yelled  Wormtail.  It  was  an  eerie  sight.  The  thing  had Wormtail’s head, but the tiniest body in the world, not to mention fairy-like wings. Even though it  was subduing Harry at the  moment,  he  still  had to  try  hard not  to  laugh. But, despite its comical look, Harry still had to do something.
“Cho!” Harry yelled. “Fly away and get help!”
“I’m trying!” she replied. “But this one isn’t letting me go!”
Harry  looked  over  and saw that  she  was being pinned down by the  other  little person that shared their  box. He had also taken his mask off, but Harry didn’t recognize who he really was.
“What do you want, Wormtail?” asked Harry through gritted teeth.
“You know what I want,” he said, making the  rest  of  his  body grow back to  its normal  size.  “I want  your  Ring! Well,  actually,  I  don’t  want  it…  my  master  does,  for another one of his beautiful plans. Remember, Harry, in the stands I offered you money for it, but you declined. Now, I’m afraid I’ll just have to take it.”
“Oh  yeah,”  said  Harry.  “What  are  you  going  to  do?  You  can’t  hurt  me… remember? I saved your life.  Any spell  you use  on me will just  be reflected  back onto you.”
To this, Wormtail just grinned.
“Yes, that is true,” said Wormtail, reaching into his pocket for something. “But, that shield can only protect  you from  magic. There’s nothing preventing me from  using Muggle tools against you.” From his pocket, he took out a small dagger.
“Fine! Fine!” said Harry, trying to quickly make a plan in his mind.  “I’ll give you the Ring, but leave Cho alone!”
“Hmm…” thought Wormtail. “I think… not.”
“What!?” yelled Harry, his plan suddenly being flushed down the drain. Wormtail grabbed hold of Harry’s hand, the one with the rings on it.
“I think I’ll keep the girl… and just cut the ring off!”
“NO!”
Wormtail brought the knife back to get some momentum on it and then brought it forward, aiming right for Harry’s finger.
An instant before the cold, sharp metal came in contact with Harry’s flesh, he did the only thing he could think off. Harry did the fastest Gryffin transformation he ever did in his life. Wormtail missed his now invisible paw.
With his increased Gryffin strength, Harry flipped Wormtail over onto the hard pavement. He ran over to Cho who was still pinned on the ground by the now fully grown Death Eater. Harry head-butted him off of her and threw her onto his own back.
“Cho!” Harry yelled, quickly transforming his head into his normal form. “Hit the hand  holding  my  broom  with  some  sort  of  spell  and  get  it  off!  Wormtail  must  have enchanted it or something!”
“Alright,” she said, looking a little shaken. She took her wand out and aimed it at the hand holding onto Harry’s broom. “Siragus!”
There was a small explosion on the wall, and when the smoke cleared, the hand was severely damaged, more  than enough for  Harry to  easily pluck his broom off  of  it.
 
Harry transformed his head back into the gryffin form, and flew high into the air, well out of the way of the magical beams that Wormtail and his cohort were shooting at them.
“Here, you can get on your broom now,” said Harry after they had been flying for a little while, only transforming his mouth this time.
“No,” said Cho, breathing deeply. “I think I’d rather just ride you home the rest of the way.”
She put her arms around his mane, and gripped tightly.
Even though Cho couldn’t tell through Harry’s transformed gryffin mouth, he had the biggest smile on his face that he had ever had in his life.

“I really had fun tonight, Harry,” said Cho once they reached Hogwarts. Harry had purposely taken a longer route back to the castle, with the hopes of having an empty castle to  themselves.  But,  with  the  later  curfew  instituted  my  Dumbledore,  children  were crawling throughout the halls everywhere. The two of them didn’t want to take too much of a risk, so they decided to call it a night. They stopped at the hallways coming out of the Great Hall that led to the four houses’ common rooms.
“Even though falling off  the  broom  wasn’t too  hot, those  two idiots  taking our room, and then that whole attacking thing at the end totally wrecked it,” continued Cho,
“flying home on you made up for it.”
“Any time,” smiled Harry.
“Let’s try to do this again sometime… that is, without all the bad parts,” said Cho as she bent down a little and gave Harry a kiss.
“I think that’s a great idea,” grinned Harry.
“See you later,” said Cho, walking back to the Ravenclaw Common Room.
“See you,” said Harry waving good-bye. After she walked out of sight, Harry did a few spins out of pure happiness and then started on his way back to the Gryffindor Room.
As he was walking, thoughts were buzzing in Harry’s mind. All that he had seen, heard and experienced this night was coming back to him. Dumbledore confirming Harry’s suspicions  that  Voldemort  was after  the  Ingredients  for  the  Immortal  Potion,  Cho,  the Extreme  Quidditch  match,  Cho,  Dumbledore  establishing  a  very  violent  method  for exterminating criminals, Cho, and Wormtail  attacking him and demanding the  Ring, and last but definitely not least, Cho… again.
So…  Voldemort  was taking more  desperate  measures  to  get  Harry’s  Ring. He wasn’t just coming into his dreams anymore, now he was all out attacking him in a public place. Harry had to be careful, especially when field trip time came around.
“Speaking of which,” said Harry to himself when he had reached the door to the common room. “The field trip’s not too far away now… only about two months…. Wizard Duel.” The portrait of the Fat Lady swung open after hearing the password that Harry had insisted upon. When he walked in, he saw that Ron and Hermione, along with only about one or two others, were the only ones still up. They were sitting in the two massive chairs that were before  the fire,  but Harry noticed that the chairs  were pushed closer  together now than they usually were.
“Hey there you two,” called Harry to them when he walked in.
“Oh, hello Harry,” said Ron back, turning around. “You’re back kind of quick. Did you have a fun night?”
 
“Oh…nothing too out of the ordinary,” said Harry back, pulling up a chair next to them. “A little Quidditch match, a lot of fire, and even a cameo appearance by Wormtail. Yeah, it was fun.”
“Wormtail was there?” said Hermione concernedly.
“Yeah,  him  and  another  Death  Eater,”  said  Harry,  sitting  down.  “They  were disguised as little fairly-like creatures with big heads.”
“What were they doing there?” asked Ron.
“What do you think?” said Harry sarcastically, holding up his hand and pointing to his skull ring. “They want this… or at least, Voldemort does.”
“So he does know about the Ring… not good,” said Hermione.
“Yeah, but that’s not all he knows about,” sighed Harry.
“Why, what else does he know?”
“Well,” said Harry, scooting in even closer to them and checking around to make sure that the others in the room were nowhere near hearing distance of the three of them.
“When I was walking back from my room to meet Cho, I accidentally found myself in this part of the castle that I’d never seen before. From there, I managed to get out into the main hallway and I heard Dumbledore talking to Quirrell.”
“Quirrell?” asked Ron, scrunching his face a little.
“Yeah,  Quirrell,”  continued  Harry.  “Anyway,  Dumbledore   said  to   him  that
Voldemort already has one of the Ingredients, and he’s failed to get it from him.”
“He said Voldemort’s got one!?” exclaimed Hermione.
“Yeah,” said Harry, remembering that Dumbledore referred to Voldemort as You- Know-Who and not by his real name.
“Well,” said Hermione, trying to find something to be cheerful about, “he’s only got  one.  I  have  one  too,  the  Bracelet;  and  Dumbledore  has  the  other,  the  Watch;  and Professor  McGonagall  has  the  Sorcerer’s  Stone; and you, Harry, have the  Ring. So,  as long as things stay the same as they are now, we’re in no trouble.”
“Yeah… if things stay the way they are,” sighed Ron.
“Oh come on Ron!” said Hermione, hitting him on the arm. “Try and look on the bright side of life.”
“Anyway,” said Harry, trying to follow Hermione’s advice and change the subject,
“what are you two doing down here anyway?”
To this, Hermione and Ron looked at each other and grinned.
“Oh Harry…” said Hermione. “You know we’d never pass up a chance to hear how it went with you and Cho.”

The weeks went by, and the excitement for  the field trip was building to almost the  point  of  explosion.  All that  anyone  was talking about,  except  for  the  first  years  of course,  was  the  trip.  Even  Harry,  Malfoy,  Ron,  and  Hermione  were  drawn into  a  few conversations. From these, they figured out that it would actually be a very exciting time. Students would form groups of five, and along with a guide, they could go anywhere they wanted inside the pyramid. In fact, the only bad part about the trip was that it started the day after  Christmas. Even though this  didn’t affect  Harry too  much, students  that would like to  see  their  families  over the winter holidays were a little  hurt. But, their  pain was short-lived.  Once  they  remembered  why  they  would  not  be  seeing  their  families  this
 
holiday, they practically forgot all about them.
Despite all of this excitement, December twenty-fifth rolled around, much faster than  Harry  expected  it  to.  As  usual,  and  it  was  practically  a  tradition  now,  Harry  was awoken by a forcefully thrown present from Ron, right on his face.
“Arg!” groaned Harry from the impact. This year, he had perfected his aim and had hit Harry’s face with a corner of the box. “Stop doing that!”
“Sorry,” said Ron, not very apologetically. “Force of habit.”
Harry sat up and pulled his glasses on over his face, letting the world come into focus around him. He saw that Ron was at the end of his bed, piling his presents up in one massive stack. Seamus and Dean were getting right down to the point and tearing the paper off of their gifts, revealing the goodies hidden within. Harry looked down at Neville’s bed and was unsurprised  to  see  that he  wasn’t there,  and neither  were  his  presents.  He  was probably spending his Christmas with Voldemort…. In fact, that’s probably where he had spent the nights for the past two months, no one had seen him anywhere but classes since the last Dueling Club meeting.
“Come on Harry!” yelled Ron again, making his gigantic stack of piles float in the air in front of him as he walked behind them. “Hermione wants us to open them together… again.”
“Yeah, that’s so  bad,” said Harry, climbing out  of  bed and waddling over to  his gifts. He gave a big yawn and put the same spell on his that Ron did to the presents he got. He  magically  lifted  them  up,  too  tired  to  carry  them  manually.  He  followed  Ron downstairs  to  the  common  room  which  was  filled  with  students,  all  taking  part  in  the holiday cheer.
“Hey Harry!” called Mike, swinging a massive mug of  Butterbeer  from  side  to side,  looking  almost  intoxicated.  “Come  and  join  our  fun!”  He  waved  his  arm  in  the direction  of  Akshay, Joe  and Chris, each of  whom was doing the same, only their  arms were around each other’s necks, and they were swaying from side to side, each drunkenly singing a different song.
“No, that’s okay,” said Harry, squinting an eye.
“I didn’t think that stuff was so strong,” said Ron, looking over in their direction.
“For some… I guess it is.”
The two of them walked over to the same corner that they went to last year, with
Hermione already there, with her small pile of presents too.
“What took you so long?” she demanded.
“Harry slept  in again,” said Ron, setting his pile  down and walking over to  her.
“Like usual.”
“Hey, it’s not my fault you take so  long to  wake me up,” grinned Harry, sitting down next to them with his stack nearby.
“Yeah  yeah,  sure,”  Ron  said,  already  working  on  his  first   gift,  along  with
Hermione who was furiously opening hers.
Harry went along with the crowd and started on his presents. He opened the first one, the usual: a cake from Mrs. Weasley, along with a new sweater for him that was just his size. There were a few other things from Mrs. Figg, Hagrid, Sirius, and even Lupin this time. But, the one Harry was most looking forward to opening was the one from Fred and George.
 
“I’ve  never  gotten  a  present  from  just  the  two  of  them  before,”  said  Harry, holding the gift up to his ear and shaking it.
“Well, they’ve never had anything to really give before  now,” said Ron, looking over his pile  of  wrappings and empty boxes  to  see  if  there  was anything else  left  to  be opened.
Harry set the present down and grabbed the ribbon. He pulled it off, and the gift opened itself, like another one of their magical toys. Once it was fully open, a note shot up right at Harry’s face. He grabbed it and read it to himself:


Dear Harry,

We know how much you love these things, and you’re not alone. These packs of cards are still the fastest selling and hottest items at our store. We would have given you more, but at the time when we sent the present, there  weren’t many of  them left. Don’t worry, though, we’ll make up for it soon.

See you later, Fred and George

“Hmm…” said Harry sarcastically to himself. “I wonder what it could be now?” He opened the small box, tore past the next layer of packaging and revealed his present.
“What is it?” asked Ron, peering over.
“Wizard  Duel  card  packs!”  grinned  Harry,  picking  up  the  four  packages  and showing them to Ron.
“Only four packages?” said Ron.
“Yeah, well, it’s four more than I would have normally gotten,” said Harry, setting three of them down so he could begin by opening one of them. He pulled the thin, shiny paper apart, and started shuffling through the cards inside, to get to the end quickly and see what his rare one would be. When Harry saw what it was, he dropped the other cards in the pack on the floor, and his mouth fell open.
“What!” yelled Ron, seeing Harry’s expression. “What did you get?”
“I got…”  gasped Harry,  turning the  card  around so  they  could  see  it.  “I got… Dumbledore!”
“Dumbledore!”  exclaimed  Ron  and  Hermione.  Ron  quickly  grabbed  it  out  of
Harry’s hand and looked at it with an awestruck expression on his face.
“Wow!” he said, reading it over. “This thing is even better than Voldemort… and its even rarer too!”
“Well  I  would  certainly  hope  so,”  said  Hermione,  trying  her  best  not  to  look interested.  Harry  grabbed  the  card  out  of  Ron’s  hand  and  looked  at  it.  It  showed Dumbledore in a very interesting situation: he was in a long and flowing blue robe and was dancing around, making it billow out every now and then. Like Voldemort’s card, this one was also holographic; the image was popping out of the card.
“Well… aren’t you going to open your other packs?” asked Hermione after Harry spent the next several seconds drooling over his new card.
“What…? Oh! Yeah!” Harry quickly shoved his Dumbledore  card into  his deck,
 
and grabbed one of  his other  packs. He tore  the packaging right off  and looked through them until he got to the rare one.
“Oh… my… god…” whispered Harry.
“What?” asked Ron.
“Look at this!” yelled Harry, showing him the card.
“Another Dumbledore!” yelled Ron, looking as if he was an a state of disbelief.
“Wow Harry,” said Hermione. “I don’t know much about the game, but I’d say the odds of getting two Dumbledores is pretty high.”
“Yeah, come one Harry,” said Ron. “Open your next pack! Who knows… maybe you’ll get another Dumbledore.”
“Yeah right,” said Harry, still in a state of shock as he put his next Dumbledore into his deck and opened his next pack. “Imagine if I did get another-” Harry stopped. He got to the rare card in his pack and could have fainted right there.
“Another Dumbledore?” sighed Ron.
“Yeah,” gasped Harry, showing it to them. Ron grunted.
“Man, I can’t believe you!”
Harry quickly opened his last pack and just threw all the non-rare cards in the air, to get to it faster. As expected, there was another dancing Dumbledore, right there before him. Harry quickly turned it to show his two friends, and then collapsed on the floor.
“Geez Harry,” said Ron, crawling over to  him. “First you’re made Prefect,  then you’re  Gryffindor  Quidditch  team  captain,  then  you’re  the  Dueling  Club  captain  and champion, then you get Cho, then you get a near perfect O.W.L score, and now… now you have four Dumbledores.”
“Yeah,” said Harry, thinking just how lucky he really was. “But… I didn’t beat Ak at the Wizard Duel club.”
Ron shook his head and snapped his fingers.
“Well, I guess you’re just a failure,” he grinned.
“Yeah, I am really pathetic,” smiled Harry, sitting up and putting his last two new cards into his deck.
“Come on you two,” said Hermione. “We should get packed up a little… we are leaving tomorrow after all.”
After a few more laughs on how bad Harry was at everything, the three of them cleaned up their massive mess and trudged back to their rooms, where they packed their bags in preparation of the trip.

Harry, along with most of the rest of the school, didn’t get much sleep that night. Even after the lights went out, it still took several hours for him to finally fall asleep, and when he did he might as well not have seeing as he woke up only a few minutes later.
This  time,  Harry  didn’t  want  to  be  woken  up  by  Ron’s  shakings,  so  he  set  a magical alarm for the first time in his life. Harry set it so that only he could hear it, and woke up before anyone else. He grabbed the small trunk that he had packed the day before and  walked  downstairs  when  the  sun  was  just  beginning  to  rise  outside.  Harry  took  a moment to look at the beautiful sight, and when he turned around to peer out the glass, he felt a tap on his shoulder. He turned around and sighed when he saw who it was.
 
“Good morning Dobby,” he groaned.
“Sir!” he piped. “This is your last chance! You is must leaving with me now!”
“No  Dobby!” yelled  Harry,  loudly  enough  to  scare  Dobby  a  little,  but  quietly enough so that he wouldn’t wake anyone else up. “I am going on the field trip and nothing bad is going to happen!”
“Please sir! If-”
“NO!” yelled Harry, much louder this time. “No. Please… just let me go.”
“Oh sir…” he sighed. “You is going to be wishing you had not gone….”
“Don’t count on it Dobby,” said Harry, picking up his trunk again and leaving the common room. “I’ll see you in a few days.”
“I is doubting it,” he squeaked a moment before he disappeared.
Harry walked all  the  way down to  the  Great  Hall,  keeping a close  eye  out  for Dobby the whole time. When he arrived down in the room, Harry was surprised by seeing a few others down there, including Joe.
“What are you doing down here so early?” Harry asked, sitting down.
“Meh couldn’t sleep,” he groaned, leaning one side of his face on his hand. “Too excited.”
“I know what you mean,” said Harry, lying back in his chair and trying to work in a few minutes of rest before they left. But, his moment of peace didn’t last very long. Just a little while later, the rest of the school came pouring down into the room.
“Hey!” called Ron when he and Hermione arrived down. “You’re up before me for
 
once!”




 


“First time for everything,” yawned Harry, getting himself up from his little nap.
“How much longer until we go?” asked Ron, sitting down and checking his watch.
“It should only be a few minutes now,” said Hermione. “Dumbledore is supposed
 
to make an announcement-”
“Hello students!” Dumbledore suddenly spoke. “Hello! Good morning to you all. Are you ready for a field trip?”
“YEAH!” everyone yelled. Harry looked around and saw that now, all the second years  and above were  in  the  room.  That place  sure  filled  up quickly when people  were excited.
“Well…”  he  continued,  sounding  a  little  less  enthusiastic.  “I have  a  very  big surprise for you all then.”
“What is it?” screamed Joe and Mike together, still acting a little drunk from the
Butterbeer.
“Well… you see, I’m afraid the trip has been cancelled.”
 
Chapter 15- Hufflepuff’s New Seeker

At first, the Hall seemed to  be in a state of  shock. Everyone was just staring at Dumbledore, as if waiting for him to change his announcement, and say that he was only joking, and the trip was still on. But… no such statement came.
“WHAT!?” yelled Chris suddenly, breaking the silence. The Great Hall filled with very loud chatter, and everyone saying pretty much the same thing.
“What does he mean the trip’s off!?
“How can he do that!?”
“Can he do that!?”
“Now I won’t see any pyramids….”
“Please…  please…”  continued  Dumbledore,  putting  his  arms  out  and  barely beginning to cease the talk. “I apologize profusely for the lateness of this announcement, but I would not have cancelled the trip if it was not for extreme circumstances. I have to say, that if we left for this trip now, there is little chance that any of you would come back alive.”
That shut up the chatter. Everyone trusted his word, and if  he said they were in danger, then they were all definitely in danger. There was no room for argument.
“However,” said Dumbledore,  now putting a single  finger  up, “while the  trip  is cancelled now, it may only be postponed for later. As of now, the field trip is scheduled for late May. I ask you all to return here at that time in the same position you are now, and please, no revolts. So, now, would you please all check the schedule for the next week as you will be here now, and not away. I thank you all for your cooperation.”
And  with  that,  Dumbledore  walked  down  from  his  giant  chair  without  saying another word. As soon as he got down from the podium, the mass of students in the room burst into a giant group of talking once again. This time, though, Harry was a part of it.
“I think  I’m  going  to  go  talk  to  Dumbledore  about  this,”  he  said  to  Ron  and Hermione quickly as he sat up, barely hearable above the rest of the conversations. “So I can see what’s behind this cancellation.”
“I’m coming too!” said Ron, jumping up.
“Me too!” called Hermione.
“Alright,” said Harry quietly. “I have the Invisibility Ring, and Ron can transform into  the  chameleon. But Hermione…” Harry dug into  his  packed trunk and grabbed the Invisibility Cloak out, throwing it to her. “You have to wear this.”
She nodded, and the three of them ran past the rest of the students, some of which were  already  leaving  back  to  their  common  rooms,  wearing  dismal  and  disappointed expressions.  Harry, Ron  and Hermione  forced  their  way through some  of  the  kids  and eventually caught up to Dumbledore who was quickly gliding along the floor down a hall.
“Dumbledore!” yelled Harry, jumping over another short student to get to him.
“Yes?” he asked, turning around and sounding rushed.
“Well… I was- that is…” stumbled Harry. “What’s going on with the trip?”
“Ah yes,” sighed Dumbledore.  “Well, you heard my announcement, didn’t you? Something bad came up, and we had to cancel it.”
“The cancellation… it didn’t have anything to do with a house elf named Dobby, did it?” asked Harry, hoping that it wasn’t his fault the trip was off.
 
“Dobby?” inquired Dumbledore. “No… he had nothing to do with it. Should he?”
“No, not at all,” said Harry, quickly throwing off  that subject. “But, what was it exactly that made you call off the trip so suddenly?”
“Harry…” said Dumbledore,  sounding almost  a little  weak. “As much as I trust and adore  you, I am afraid  that  I cannot  tell  you,  and I hope  that  you will  respect  that decision.”
“Yes, of  course,”  said  Harry, covering himself  up from  the  cold  and feeling  a little disappointed that he hadn’t gotten more information.
“Now, I’m afraid I must be off, Harry,” said Dumbledore quickly, turning around.
“The two of us have business that we must attend to.”
“We do?” stumbled Harry, turning around and seeing that Ron and Hermione were nowhere to be seen, just as they should be. “I mean- I do?”
“Oh yes,” he continued, not turning around, and putting an arm in the air. “I have a very important meeting to go to, and you have a very important Quidditch match. The new schedule says so.”
“Thanks you for  telling me, professor,” said Harry. But, Dumbledore  must have not  heard  him.  He  didn’t  turn  around  and just  kept  walking.  Then,  he  said  to  himself,
“But…  I  think  your  meeting  is  more  important  than my  match.  Come  on  guys…  let’s follow him.”
“Alright,” said Ron and Hermione together.
Harry grinned and made sure his Animagus Invisibility Ring was on securely. He brought it  up a little  higher on his finger  and then quickly transformed into  the gryffin, though  no  one,  not  even  Ron  or  Hermione,  saw  him  do  it.  He  slowly  walked  behind Dumbledore, trying not to breathe, hoping that Ron and Hermione were still with him. As unhurried as Harry thought he was going, he was unused to  the Gryffin’s walking speed, which  was  quite  fast  and quickly  caught  up with  Dumbledore.  He  followed  him  into  a classroom and quickly hid in a corner when he shut the door.
“Are  you  guys  in  the   room?”  Harry  called  out   telepathically  to   Ron  and
Hermione.
“Yeah,” they both said.
“Right next to you,” added Hermione.
“Alright, follow me.”
Once the three  of  them were safe and secure, Harry took a look around, to  see who else  was in the room. He was surprised to  see  that, along with Dumbledore,  every teacher in the school was in there. They were all sitting around a large, circular table, and they all had the same, bored expression on their faces.
“What is it Dumbledore?” asked an annoyed looking Quirrell.
“Yes,”  said  Flitwick,  “some  of   us  were  especially  looking  forward  to  our chaperoning positions.”
“On the contrary,” interjected Snape, “some of us were not….”
“I will answer all of your questions,” said Dumbledore, sitting down and putting his hands in the air. “First of all… I am sorry to you all as well. I would not have stopped the trip if it was not completely necessary.”
“But  what  was  this  thing  that  happened  that  made  it  completely  necessary?”
demanded Quirrell.
 
“I  think  we  all  know  the  answer  to  that,”  said  Dumbledore,  looking  around.
“Voldemort was spotted around the pyramid, obviously expecting us. Who knows what he had in mind.”
“So you think he would have dared to attack us?” asked Flitwick.
“Even with you there?” said McGonagall.
“I believe,” said Dumbledore, “that Voldemort is desperate enough to attack even me. Though, I fear, that will no longer be an overstatement, as he is becoming more and more powerful by the day.”
For a few moments, no one spoke. There was nothing anyone could really say in response to that.
“I can’t take it anymore!” yelled Professor  McGonagall suddenly, slamming her fist on the table.
“What is it Minerva?” asked Dumbledore.
“Oh, Albus,” she sighed. “I should have given this  to  you long ago.” Amidst the eyes  of  everyone,  she  reached  into  her  pocket,  and took  out  the  Sorcerer’s  Stone.  “At first, I wasn’t sure… but now, with all that’s going on, I know that you should be the one to protect it and not me.”
“Minerva…” gasped Dumbledore, in shock of seeing the Stone right there before him on the table. All the other teachers were staring it as well, practically drooling over it.
“How did you… get this?”
“Did you make it?” asked Flitwick, moving in for a closer look.
“Oh, no,” sighed McGonagall. “This is Perenelle Flamel’s Stone.”
“Perenelle Flamel?” inquired Dumbledore, picking up the Stone an examining it.
“How did you ever get it from her?”
“Well, I didn’t get it directly from her. I got it from… Harry Potter.”
“Harry Potter!?” exclaimed almost  everyone in the room. Harry had to  try hard not to say anything, especially ‘here’ or ‘present’.
“How on Earth did he get it?” asked Flitwick.
“In Perenelle’s will,” continued McGonagall, “it said to give the Stone to whoever bother to show up at the funeral. Harry and his cousin were the only ones who came, so they got it, and then he gave it to me for safekeeping.”
“And now you’re giving it to me…” said Dumbledore, setting it down on the table.
“Yes.”
“Well… I thank you for  doing so,” said Dumbledore, putting the Stone into his pocket.. “I can assure you, it is safe with me.” He patted his pocket he put it in and stood up. “Now that you all know what is going on, I will ask you to leave, so we can all get back to business that I’m sure we all have to do.”
With that, the rest of the teachers stood up, gazing transfixedly at Dumbledore’s pocket, wanting to get one last glimpse of the Stone. Once they realized their efforts were in vain, they left quickly and the room was empty, except for Dumbledore and Quirrell.
“I  can’t  believe  Harry  Potter  had  the  Sorcerer’s  Stone,”  whispered  Quirrell, walking closer to Dumbledore.
“I know…” said Dumbledore, taking the Stone out of his pocket and examining it again. Quirrell came in even closer to look at it. “Not good at all….”
Why  wasn’t  that  good?  Harry  thought.  He  knew  that  he  should  have  told
 
Dumbledore  or  McGonagall immediately after  he got it, but was it really so  bad that he waited?
“Now,” said Quirrell, “please tell  me, Dumbledore. What is the real reason you cancelled the trip?” To this, Dumbledore grinned and returned the Sorcerer’s Stone back to his pocket.
“I think that I have found it on my own.”
“What’s he talking about?” asked Ron telepathically.
“Shh!” yelled  Hermione.  “Don’t talk! Who  knows, he  may still  be  able  to  hear
 
you.”




 


“Yeah yeah, alright.”
“You mean you’ve found it, without the help?” asked Quirrell, sounding amazed.
“Yes,” said Dumbledore, looking around in a suspicious manner. “But I’m afraid
 
we may have to continue this conversation at a later time and place.”
Quirrell eyed him dubiously, and then an expression of understanding appeared.
“Oh… okay,” he sighed, sounding as if he wanted to hear more. “See you later.”
“Yes,  goodbye,”  said  Dumbledore,  walking  out  of  the  room  quickly,  almost immediately followed by Quirrell who took one last look around before exiting. Once the coast was clear, Ron and Harry transformed back, and Hermione took the cloak off.
“Nice going, Ron!” she yelled, jabbing him in the side with her elbow.
“Hey!” he shouted. “What did I do?”
“Dumbledore heard you talking,” said Harry, getting off  his arms and knees and standing up. “He must have sensed it somehow.”
“How do you know that’s the reason he left?”
“Oh  yeah,  it  just  so  happens  that  everything  was  going  fine  until  you  said something,” said Hermione sarcastically, crossing her arms.
“Oh… yeah.”
“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry, opening the door. “We’ll find out more later.”
“I hope so,” she pouted, exiting with him.
“But I still  wonder-” said Harry, just  before  he was cut off  by a screaming and running Ak.
“Harry!  Ron!”  he  yelled  at  them,  broom  in  hand  and  his  Quidditch  robes  on.
“Where the heck have you been!? The game is going to start any second!”
“Oh yeah,” said Harry, looking at his watch and remembering that their match had been moved ahead. “See you later Hermione!”
“I’ll watch you in the stands!” she yelled to them as they sprinted away with Ak.
“Where have you two been?” he asked Ron and Harry again as they were running.
“What house are we playing?” asked Harry, changing the subject.
“Hufflepuff,” said Ak when they arrived at the Gryffindor changing room.
“Oh come  on!” said  Ron,  changing into  his  robes.  “Why’d you have to  call  us down when we’re playing THEM?”
“They’re not easy enough that we don’t need a Seeker and a Keeper,” said Ak, his arms on his sides.
“That’s debatable,” mumbled Harry, pulling off his socks.
“Anyways,” said Ak, sitting down on a bench. “I’ll tell you guys first since you’re two of the most avid members. The Wizard Duel Club won’t be meeting anymore, at least
 
until the end of the year.”
“What!?” yelled Ron and Harry together, almost falling over.
“It’s a protest against the cancellation of the trip,” said Ak. “It’s the best thing we could think of.”
“But canceling the club won’t bring back the trip!” yelled Ron, almost in tears.
“I’m sorry Ron,” sighed Ak, “but it’s just something we’ve got to do.”
“Heh, it’s too bad you had to cancel it now,” snickered Harry. “Especially since I
was really going to cream you the next time we played.”
“Yeah, I’m sure.”
“Well, me and Harry will still play it every day!” said Ron, continuing to change.
“Aren’t we Harry?”
“Definitely,”  he  said,  putting  the  last  few  finishing  touched  on  his  Quidditch robes. “There we go! All set!”
“Me too!” said Ron quickly after.
“Uh… Ron?” said Harry.
“Yeah?”
“Tell me if I’m wrong, but last time I checked, underwear is supposed to be worn underneath your pants.”
“Not today!”
“Alright, whatever…” said Harry, grabbing his broom.
“Excellent  time!”  said  Ak, walking out  with  the  two  of  them.  “We  have three seconds to spare!” He threw open the doors that led to the Quidditch field and the rest of the team was there waiting, all lined up.
“Where have you been?” demanded Mike. “I could have learned another thousand or so Kanji while I was waiting if I’d known you were going to take so long.”
“Yeah,” snapped Akshay. “You guys took longer to  get here  than downloading a terabyte-size file off of a 3KB bandwidth server with a 28.8KBPS modem!”
“HEY!”  yelled  Joe  suddenly.  “You  wear  your  underwear  on  the  outside  too! ROCK ON!” He jumped up and gave Ron a high five. Harry just groaned.
“Yeah, you know it’s cool,” said Chris, showing off his backwards pants as well.
“Maybe I should have chosen the losing team at the tryout instead,” moaned Harry to himself as the beginning announcements for the game began.
“And now let’s welcome the Gryffindor team!” yelled Blaise Zabini, though not nearly  as  loud  as  the  Extreme  Quidditch  commentator  had.  In  fact,  compared  to  that announcer’s voice, Blaise’s was as soft and quiet as a pillow or a fluffy bunny.
“Well, that’s our cue! Good luck team!” said Harry as he and his teammates flew out onto the field, getting into their positions. Harry soared down to the middle, to shake hands with the Hufflepuff team’s captain.
“Hello again Justin,” said Harry, offering his arm. “Lovely day for  a game, isn’t
 
it?”

 


“Don’t get cocky this time,” grinned Justin, shaking Harry’s hand. “Now our team
 
is better than ever. We’ve even got a new Seeker.”
“Oh? Is he better than you were?”
“Much,” said Justin, releasing Harry’s hand. “He’ll crush you.”
“Heh, who is it?” asked Harry, getting ready to fly away. “Ernie Macmillan?”
 
“Well… it isn’t not Ernie,” said Justin flying back.
“Ernie!” yelled Harry, nearly falling off of his broom. “Hah! What a joke!”
“Teams!”   yelled   Madam   Hooch   suddenly,   cutting   off	Harry   and   Justin’s
‘conversation’. “Get ready!” With that, she opened the box of balls in front of her and let the Bludgers fly into the air followed by the Snitch that Harry got to glimpse for  only a second before it flew out of sight.
“Get  set…”  she  grabbed the  Quaffle  out  of  the  box,  and held  it  in  a throwing position, getting ready to start the match. Joe, Mike, and Akshay looked ready for it, and the Hufflepuff Chasers looked almost intimidated by their ferocious appearance.
“Go!” yelled Blaise, Madam Hooch immediately heaving the Quaffle into the air, starting the match.
“And they’re off!” yelled Blaise as Joe went right for the big red ball, grabbing it before  Harry  even  saw him  move.  Once  the  ball  was  in  his  possession,  the  game  was practically over. All Harry had to do was sit back and watch his three magnificent Chasers work the Quaffle, and then catch the Snitch when he got the chance.
“And Gryffindor scores!” yelled Blaise, not announcing biasedly. Since Slytherin wasn’t playing, he’d might as well sound happy for Gryffindor. “And then they score again! Twenty to nothing for Gryffindor! Go team!”
Harry grinned to himself. Even if his team wore their underwear on the outside, they were still excellent players. He saw them weaving through the Hufflepuff team as if they were just stationary stones in their path. But, through all of their movement, he saw a Hufflepuff team member moving much the same way. But, none of them were that good…
.  Harry  flew  a  little  closer  to  try  and  investigate.  He  could  just  barely  make  out  the person’s face and the little gold thing in front of him….
“Wait a minute!” yelled Harry. “That’s the Snitch!” Not wasting any time to think about  the  situation,  Harry  blasted  forward  on  his  broom,  right  in  the  direction  of  the person and the glint of gold in front of him. Faster and faster Harry went, getting closer to it every second.
“Hah! Thought you’d finally start playing now did you!” yelled the player chasing the Snitch. Harry recognized the voice as belonging to Ernie Macmillan, the team’s new Seeker, but didn’t recognize his features at all.
Ernie’s hair was done in a very unusual way. It was dyed a jet black all over and was down in thick dreadlocks, with a few gold streaks here and there. His face was also completely different: now, his eyes were now longer a light blue but a deep red, and Harry may have imagined it, but it looked as though he had two of his teeth replaced with fangs. The last piece of him Harry could see  were his hands, and they looked as they belonged more to some sort of horrible monster than to a boy. His fingernails were long and black, and the  deep red veins were  practically popping out  of  his  skin. Plus,  his skin all over, especially  his face and arms, was a light white, but not the wonderful light white that the moon sometimes is, this white was more like the color  of puss that would seep out of a popped blister.
“What have you done to yourself?” gasped Harry, keeping one eye on him and the other on the Snitch that was slowly but surely getting further ahead of them.
“None of your business!” yelled Ernie, grinning  and lashing out his foot, trying to kick Harry off of his broom. Harry did a quick spin, avoiding it.
 
“What the heck are you trying to do!?” screamed Harry at him. “Kill me!?” Ernie just smiled.
“I was only going to put you out of commission, but sure. If you want to die, I’d be more than happy to be the bringer of your demise.”
“You’re  a  Death  Eater  now,”  said  Harry  slowly  to  him,  suddenly  realizing  it.
“Aren’t you?”
“Whatever  made  you  think  that?”  smirked  Ernie,  going  slightly  faster.  Harry abruptly realized that even though he was on the superior  broom, he was having a tough time keeping up with Ernie.
“You look like Neville,” spat Harry. “Only you look more like a vampire, whereas
Neville looks like a Japanese cartoon.”
“Ah yes, Neville,” sighed Ernie, doing a quick little magnificent spin. “One of the few non-prefect Death Eaters.”
“Non-prefect?” questioned Harry. “What do you mean?”
“Oh come  on,  Harry,  surely  you’ve  noticed  it.  Almost  all  the  prefects  in  the school are Death Eaters. I mean, sure some of them hide it better than me, but I can’t help but flaunt my new powers.  Recruiting prefects is exactly what my master wants, they are the best of the best at the school, and that is what he desires: the best of the best.”
“If he only wanted the best, why did he send a letter to everyone in the school at the beginning of the year?” asked Harry, watching the Snitch quickly zoom out of sight.
“For two reasons,” explained Ernie, making a sharp turn to try and find the Snitch again, “one: he didn’t know who the prefects were at the beginning of the year; and two, my master  does  not want new recruits  to  think he discriminates  like that. Believe it or  not, some prefects wouldn’t join unless their inferior friends were guaranteed the chance to as well. Imagine that? They actually WANT to be around lesser minds….”
“You’re disgusting,” hissed Harry.
“Yes, well, joining has given me that advantage over you on the Quidditch field at least.” Ernie took one hand off of his broom and pointed to his eye. “You see this? These new eyes of mine don’t just look cool, they also serve a purpose. They can home in on and track anything I set them to. All I need to do is describe the Snitch and voila! I can see it even if it was behind a brick wall.”
“You got  new eyes?”  asked  Harry,  feeling  as  though  their  victory  was  slowly slipping away.
“Yes,”  murmured  Ernie,  looking  around  the  field.  “Sure,  the  operation  was horrible, hurt more than anything in my life. But, my master doesn’t believe in anesthetic, so I had to bear it. But now, it was worth it. I can beat anyone and my master is happy.”
“You’re pathetic,” spat Harry, hearing Blaise announce that their team had scored another ten points. He had obviously missed some other announcements while talking with Ernie as he said the score was now one hundred and forty to nothing. “Doing things just to please Voldemort….”
“Well,  it  doesn’t  matter  what  you  think,  Harry.  Right  now,  your  life  is  worth nothing since in the end, you will be destroyed, and I along with my master and his army, shall be victorious. Also, in the short term area, I will win this game.”
“Oh yeah, how so?”
“Because,” he said softly, raising his arm up, “I am holding the Snitch.”
 
“WHAT!?” yelled  Harry,  looking  at  the  small,  winged,  golden  ball  in  Ernie’s grotesque hand.
“Ha ha!” yelled  Ernie,  throwing the  ball  at Harry. “Tricked you!” With  that, he flew away, at speeds faster than Harry had ever seen before. Just as he was about to try and catch  up  with  him,  the  fake  Snitch  that  Ernie  had  thrown  exploded  in  Harry’s  face, releasing some sort of itchy powder.
“Oh great, Scratchy Snitches,” groaned Harry, resisting the urge to rub his face. “I have  got  to  tell  Fred  and  George  to  stop  making  those.”  This  was  no  longer  just  a Quidditch match, this was war.
“And that’s a penalty to Hufflepuff for using a foreign object during the match!” yelled Blaise. Everyone on the field, except Ernie and Harry, flew over to their foul shot positions. Harry grabbed his wand from out of his pocket, and took aim.
“Stupefy!”  he  yelled,  watching  the  red  beam  shoot  out  and  miss  Ernie  by  a millimeter, though surprising him.
“And  there’s   a  penalty  to   Gryffindor   for   using  magic   during  the   match!” announced Blaise, signaling the teams to get away from the Hufflepuff goals, and fly over to the Gryffindor ones, to make their foul shot there.
“You want to play dirty, eh Harry!?” yelled Ernie from across the field, taking his wand out. “Well then, prepare  to  get  dirty! Terre  Monter!” Ernie  aimed his wand at the ground below Harry and the greenish-yellow beam hit it there. At first, nothing happened, but  then,  when Blaise  announced  another  penalty,  making the  teams  once  again switch sides,  a  monstrous  beast  composed  completely  of  dirt,  mud  and  sand  rose  from  the ground, right in front of Harry.”
It was horrible sight at over sixty feet tall. The monster’s arms and legs were the size of tree trunks and it had no head; only two massive, black eyes on its bulging chest. All over, the  dirt  was constantly flowing everywhere, as if  it  were  composed  of  muddy rivers.  A horrid,  teeth-filled  mouth  suddenly  appeared  beneath  its  eyes,  and it  gave an unearthly roar, making everyone in the stands cheer, scream, yell and run all at the same time.
The beast took a massive swing at Harry with one of its arms. Harry flew out of the way, just in time to avoid a very grimy grave, and causing a small earthquake when its arm finally did hit the ground.
“I see  you’ve gone one  step  ahead on what we’ve been learning in Herbology!” yelled  Harry  to  Ernie  as  the  monster  took  another  swing  at  him.  Blaise  was  the  only person left in the crowd, and he was announcing penalties left and right, finally making the teams give up, and go over to join either Ernie or Harry in the battle.
“What  should  we  go?”  gasped  Chris,  flying  over  next  to   Harry  as  Blaise announced another penalty to  Hufflepuff for  not taking a penalty shot. Harry just hoped that everyone that left went to get the professors’ help.
“Don’t worry, Harry,” said Ak just as Harry was about to suggest that they all run away. “I’ll take of earth-boy here, you just make sure that Ernie kid pays for this!”
“Got it!” yelled Harry, spinning his wand around. “Akshay! Joe! Mike! Chris! Ron! Come with me, I’ll need your help to take down the other team.” Just saying those words filled Harry with an exhilaration like no other. He was commanding people into battle… and he liked it.
 
“Yeah!” they all said together flying up to him.
“Now  go!”  yelled  Ak,  taking  his  wand  out.  “Mer  Monter!”  Ak  aimed  for  the ground right  in  front  of  the  earth  monster,  who Harry and his  two fighters  were  flying around at the moment. As soon as the light-blue beam touched the ground, a massive body of water appeared, and out from it, a water monster appeared.
It erupted from the middle of  the newly created lake, like a giant wave that just didn’t crash down. It quickly took form and looked almost exactly like the earth one did, only this  monster  was made out  of  flowing water  rather  than fluid dirt.  The two beasts immediately saw each other, and instantly began fighting it out, leaving the team open to attack.
“Chris! Ron! Joe!” yelled Harry just when they were about to fly around the two monsters.  “You guys go  around the  left  side!  Mike  and Akshay, you take  the  right! I’ll come up the middle!”
“Yes sir!” the five of them called back. Chris, Ron and Joe swerved off to the left, went through the  two  fighting beasts,  and then  up the  other  side,  taking the  Hufflepuff team  by  surprise.  Simultaneously,  Mike  and  Akshay  flew  down  to  the  right,  then  up quickly, right below two unsuspecting Hufflepuff Chasers.
“Ernie!” yelled Harry, seeing that his team was more than a match for the rest of the Hufflepuffs. “You and me… let’s go!”
“Very  well  then,”  said  Ernie,  moving  in  closer,  away  from  his  losing  team.
“Saber!” He held his wand out in front of him, and a black beam rose out of the top, like a sword. Though it was very dark, it seemed lighter than the blackest black Harry could think of.
“What’s that spell?” yelled Harry to him, getting ready to unleash an attack.
“It’s the Sword Spell,” yelled Ernie back. “One of the oldest spells ever created. Traditionally, two wizards would only use that spell during the match, and it would be like a swordfight. But, I’d rather just cut you up. Notice how black mine is… the color of the sword reflects the heart of its user. The darker, the more evil.”
Harry just  had to  try  the  spell  now. He  held his  wand out  in front  of  him, and summoned the sword from within. To his surprise, a blazing white beam did not come out, but rather a light gray one.
“Ha ha!” laughed Ernie. “So Mr. Harry Potter isn’t so perfect after all!”
“Well,” yelled Harry to him through gritted teeth, wondering what could make his sword darker, “at least I’ll have a perfect record against you, I’ll beat you at this, and then I’ll beat you at the Quidditch match.”
“AAARRRGGG!”  yelled  Ernie,  gripping  his  wand  with  both  of  his  hands  and holding it over his head as he charged right at Harry, getting ready to bring it down on him with all the strength he had. As he got closer, Harry got in a defensive position, trying to be ready for anything. “TAKE THIS!”
He brought the sword down onto  Harry when he was only feet  away from  him. But, Harry was ready. He  held his  sword  up in  a shielding position,  and the  only  thing Ernie hit when he brought it down was Harry’s beam.
“You’re stronger than I thought…” groaned Ernie, trying to  push Harry’s sword down with his by pushing harder. As much as Harry knew he had to keep his sword there, he didn’t think he could hold it there much longer.
 
“I can’t  say  the  same  about  you,”  groaned  Harry  back,  trying  to  sound  more powerful than he actually was. Now, Ernie’s strength was really starting to get to him. He could feel  his muscles  hurting all over and sweat was dripping down his forehead like a faucet. His brain was screaming at him to let go… but he couldn’t!
Harry looked over in the direction of the two monsters for help, but Ak was busy assisting   his   water   beast.   The   pressure   being   put   on   him   by   Ernie   was   almost overwhelming. Akshay, Mike, Chris, and Joe  were all too  far away to  be heard. No one could  help  Harry  until  it   was  too   late.  The  pressure   wasn’t  almost   overwhelming anymore…  now  it  was  overwhelming!  Harry  had  to  let  go!  He  gave  into  his  brain’s demands and let his arms weaken.
Then, just as Harry was expecting to see Ernie’s black sword fall down upon him and cut him into two, the most wonderful thing in the world happened. Out of nowhere, a Bludger hit Ernie right in the face.
The effect of the impact was instantaneous. Ernie mumbled something to himself, his eyes rolled back into his head, and he fell all the way down to the sandy ground, along with his sword. Harry breathed a huge sigh of relief.
“Thank goodness this is still a Quidditch match,” he said to himself.
“And that’s a penalty to Gryffindor for-”
“Oh will you shut it already Blaise!” yelled Harry to him, flying over to see  his team. Blaise  became  quiet,  and he  saw that the  entire  Hufflepuff  team had joined  their Seeker on the ground. Unfortunately, so did Ron, Akshay, Joe and Mike. Only Chris and Ak were still up, and they looked as though they were in  really bad shape. Chris had hex marks all over him, his right arm and leg were moving spastically, and he looked as though he was going to fall off of his broom… which is exactly what he did a second later.
“Ak!” yelled Harry, looking over at the two monsters that were still duking it out, and keeping his eyes peeled for the Snitch so he could end this highly unorthodox match.
“How’s it going!?”
“Not good!” he yelled back, looking about the same as Chris did. “A few of  the
Hufflepuffs hit me along with this dirt beast here. Speaking of which, he-”
But, Harry never heard Ak’s last line. Just then, his water monster delivered the final blow to its opponent, causing him to stumble around for a second, then beginning to fall over, right where Harry and Ak were.
Suddenly, the thing seemed a lot taller than Harry originally thought it was, seeing as it was about to collapse on top of him. Harry flew as fast as he could out of the way, but it was no use. A second later, he was on the ground, feeling his entire body being crushed all over by the intense weight of the monster. Only his head was sticking out from it.
“Ak!” gasped Harry, trying to reach his wand.
“Yeah…” he moaned back just as the dirt forming the monster  stopped flowing and remained motionless… like it should, beginning to fall back to the ground.
“Are you under this thing too?”
“Yeah…” he gasped back again, sounding as if  he were in immense  pain, which was perfectly understandable. Harry, though, still had work to do. He had to find the Snitch so he could officially end this anarchic match. He scanned the ground around him for any sign  of  it…  and suddenly  found  it!  But,  when  he  saw where  it  was,  Harry  groaned  to himself and tried to smack his own head.
 
The Snitch was in Ernie’s hand.
 
Chapter 16- Three Dimensional Dueling

It wasn’t much longer before a group of professors  came down from the school and helped  everyone  out  of  their  horrible  situations.  They cleaned  up the  leftover  dirt from  the  earth  monster  and banished  the  water  one  back  to  the  sea.  Madam  Pomfrey brought all fourteen players to the Hospital Wing; all the way Blaise was prancing about and singing about Hufflepuff’s ten point victory. Apparently, he had taken less of a liking to  Gryffindor  after  Harry  told  him  to  shut  up.  Things  only  got  worse  when Professor McGonagall  said  she  was going to  take  one  hundred  points  away from  each  house  for appalling and expulsion-worthy behavior due to their spur of the moment fight.
But,  it  wasn’t  all  bad.  From  their  work  together,  Harry’s  team  now  had  a magnificent camaraderie and Harry felt as though he was part of a family when around the six of  them, especially when he was all bandaged up like  a mummy and sharing a small hospital bed with one of  his teammates. His relations especially improved with Ak, now reaching the point of almost a Ron, Hermione, or even a Malfoy friendship.
Also,  the  news  of  the  match  spread  like  wildfire  around  the  school  and  even though Harry’s team lost, they were still crowned as the winners for beating Hufflepuff in the duel that took  place. Harry’s reputation was back to  its  usual insanely high standard that it used to be before he lost to Malfoy in the club and Ak in the card game match.
The unusual Quidditch match additionally turned students attention momentarily away from  the cancelled field trip, though not for  long. They needed something else  to distract their minds… and they were going to get it. Thanks to the new schedule, another Dueling Club meeting was scheduled for the end of the week, and everyone in the school, especially  Harry, was looking forward to  it.  Though… he  was also  concerned.  What  if someone tried to steal Hermione’s Bracelet again? What if Voldemort got it?
“Shouldn’t you just leave it in your room?” Harry asked her before they left the common room that day, a few minutes before that meeting was going to start. She rubbed the Bracelet and glared at him.
“No,” she said forcefully.
“Why not?”
“Because…” she said, sounding as if she were trying to make something up on the top  of  their  head. “Because…  if  I leave it  in  my room,  it  will  be  even easier  to  steal! Someone could just open up my drawer and take it out.”
“But,  why  don’t  you  just  put  a  charm  on  the  drawer,  then?  Like  Harry  did?”
suggested Ron, polishing up his wand a bit.
“Oh yeah, you saw what happened when Harry put the supposedly good charm on it,” retorted Hermione. “Neville took it as easily from it as if it was a normal drawer.”
“But… with the proper precautions-”
“Oh my! Look at he time!” yelled Hermione suddenly, looking at her non-existent watch. “We’re going to be late if we don’t hurry!”
Harry and Ron looked at each other and shrugged.
“Women and their  jewelry,” whispered Ron to  Harry as they stepped out of  the room. “Don’t come between the two.” Harry laughed out loud and Hermione gave him a piercing gaze again. He just cleared his throat, looked up, and they continued walking.
It  wasn’t much  longer  before  they  arrived at  the  Great  Hall,  most  of  the  club
 
already there, as usual. But, there wasn’t any sign of Professor Flitwick yet.
“Harry!” Cho called to him when he arrived.
“Hello Cho!” said Harry back, stepping away from Ron and Hermione and over to her. “How are you?”
“Fine as long as you’re around,” she said back, tossing her hair and causing a few giggles from the younger students in the crowd. “Anyways, do you know what’s going to happen for this duel?”
“Sure do,” said Harry, feeling proud of himself. This time, Professor Flitwick had visited him when he was in the Hospital Wing, while Harry was trying to  figure out the best spell to use to make his bedpan fly out and land on Ernie’s head. They talked about and discussed  how the  next  meeting  should  be  run,  and they  both  agreed  that  the  new guerrilla tactics way of fighting was a huge success. So, Harry just decided to improve on an already good thing.
“Oh really? So, what’s this one going to be like?”
“Well, it was really inspired by our date,” grinned Harry, kicking the floor.
“Oh no! You’re not going to light the floor on fire or bring out dragons, are you?”
“What?” said Harry, a little confused. “No. I was inspired by the end of our date, when I flew you home.”
“Oh… that part of it.”
“Anyways, I thought everyone here would like to experience flight, so we decided to make this a three dimensional guerrilla duel. Instead of only being able to move left and right  and forward  and backwards,  now we’ll  all  be  able  to  move  up and down as  well, literally adding a whole new dimension to the game.”
“Sounds  like  fun!” exclaimed  Cho,  just  as  tiny  Professor  Flitwick  appeared  in front of the doors, looking almost out of breath.
“Sorry  I’m  late,”  he  apologized  quickly.  “But  this  trip  cancellation  has  really screwed up everyone’s schedules here.” Once the word ‘trip’ left his mouth, a giant groan escaped from every person in the crowd. “Oh come on! It’s not that bad. All you have to do is  wait  a few  more  months  and you’ll  go  anyways. But,  now let’s  forget  all  about  that pyramid nonsense and have a good dueling match!”
Everyone in the crowd cheered, though the field trip was still  on their  minds…
and would be for quite a while.
“Anyways, your  captain  and I  have quite  a  good  match  planned  for  you  today! Come in and let’s get started!” With that, he magically opened the doors to the Great Hall, revealing a completely  empty room,  just  like  it  was at the  last  club meeting. Only this time,  on one  side  of  the  room  there  were  twenty magical skateboards, each a different color.
“For  this  duel!” announced  Flitwick, closing  the  massive  doors  when everyone was inside. “We shall once again be practicing our guerrilla tactics, but this time it shall be even  more  exciting.”  He  waved  an  arm  over  to  the  side  of  the  room  with  all  of  the skateboards. “You see here, over at this wall, there are twenty Soaring Skateboards, each of  which  might  I  add  is  different  from  every  other,  and  is  imported  directly  from Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes. Each of  you will take one and duel on it. If you fall off  of your board or if you touch the ground at all, you shall be instantly teleported to me, in a small, clear room where you can observe the rest of the duel but not participate in it.” He
 
pointed a finger  to  a top corner  of  the room  where  there  was an almost  invisible  room hanging above everything.
“Now,” he continued, “if you’d all please, take a board.” He waved his arm in the direction of the assorted skateboards and the group of students ran over to them, picking their favorite. Harry saw that Neville grabbed the one to the far right, a pure black board with two big, red eyes on the top that occasional blinked; and Ernie took the one next to it, one  that had flames  painted  on  it  that  actually moved and roared.  They high fived each other and Harry felt almost sick. He chose one that had a picture of white stars on a blue background, and Mike took the one next to his: a white one with black and red Japanese characters all over it. He smiled and began rubbing the board, drooling all over it. Malfoy went for  one  with a green,  hissing snake  on  it,  but Ron, however, was trampled  by the running crow, and was left  with the  only  one  available  when everyone  else  had chosen theirs:  a pink one with a picture of a smiling bunny on the top. Harry burst out laughing when he saw Ron get on it.
“Shut  up  Harry,”  he  said  to  him,  trying  to  get  his  balance,  which  wasn‘t  very difficult, seeing as it had no wheels.
“Now, I know there are some of you here that have never used these before,” said Professor  Flitwick, putting his hands up. “But, it  is  very easy, much easier  than using a broomstick. All you have to do is first, step on it. Then, to get it started, say ‘up’.”
Everyone got in a line and stepped up onto their boards. Almost in unison, they all yelled the same word.
“UP!”
Immediately,  the  entire  club  rose  to  the  air,  about  a  foot  off  the  ground. For some, though, even that was too much, and they fell off.
“Now now!” said Professor Flitwick, helping a few kids back on. “That’s what the safety is for, to help you stay on when you go higher. To set the safety, just say ‘safety’, and then a number from one to ten afterwards, depending on how secure you want to be. Now, when you’d normally use these things, you would use the ten setting, of course. But, it  is  nearly  impossible  to  knock  anyone  off  at  that  setting,  so  we’ll  all  just  use  five instead.”
“Safety  five!”  yelled  everyone  again,  almost  immediately  after  Flitwick  had finished talking. Harry felt  the board getting tighter on his feet, as if  glue had just been poured between his shoes and the top of the board, making it nearly impossible to move his legs. But, Harry found, if he tried hard enough, he could still pull them right off.
“Controlling the boards is  even easier,” continued Flitwick. “Once the safety is on, the board makes kind of a small telepathic connection with your brain. All you need to do is think that you want to go left, right, forward, backward, up or down and you will. Go ahead! Try it out!”
In  his  mind,  Harry  just  thought  of  going  forward,  the  word,  along  with  the sensation  it  usually gives. Before  he had even completed  half  of  his  thought, the  board shot  forward,  at  speeds  rivaling  a  broomstick.  Harry  looked  behind  him  and  saw  that everyone was now very spread out. Some were up, left, right, and one, Joe, collided with the wall.
“Meh okay!” he announced to the not-really-caring crowd, giving double thumbs up, rubbing his back, and then going forward.
 
“Alright  then!”  said  Professor  Flitwick  happily,  doing  a  small  spin  in  the  air.
“Spread out and I will set up a few obstacles!” He took out his wand, muttered a spell, and out of the tip flew hundreds of multicolored beams, flowing off in every direction. Each beam formed  its  own random shaped obstacle:  some  were  cylinders,  come  were  walls, others were even shaped like people, but they all were hovering in the air, moving around a bit, like an army of balloons. They covered most of the air, making it like the forest they dueled in last time. The barriers would make good places to hide… maybe even too good.
“Hermione,”  said  Harry  telepathically  to  her,  using  his  Animagus  abilities.  “I think you should come  a little  closer  to  me… just  in case  someone  tries  to  steal  your Bracelet again. We can stay together for a little while and if nothing happens, we can split up again.”
“Alright,” she said back, not looking at him and flying a bit closer.
“Hey Harry!” Malfoy called to  him telepathically. “Is it going to  come down to me and you again?”
“You know it,”  Harry  called  back.  “Unless  Neville  or  Ernie  takes  care  of  you
 
first.”

 


“Hah!  Those  two!”  laughed  Malfoy,  maintaining  a  straight  face  on  his  body.
 
“They’re barely up to the point that I was at last year.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Remember those spells I used on you last year, the ones where I grew four arms, made the field an inferno, and made you feel like a hundred dementors were around?”
“Yeah,” shuddered Harry, remembering all too well.
“Well, believe it or not, those are very advanced spells. The stuff that You-Know- Who has taught those two is not even up to that level yet.”
“So you mean, if that’s what you knew last year, now you have an insanely massive arsenal of dark magic spells at your disposal?”
“You’re lucky you have me as a friend and not an enemy,” chuckled Malfoy back.
“And  now,”  announced  Flitwick,  breaking  up  their  conversation,  “for  a  final touch!” He muttered another spell and aimed right at the ground. A massive pool of fire overflowed out of the tip of his wand and right onto the floor of the Great Hall, turning it into a giant sea of flames and molten lava. Everyone went another ten feet higher up, just to escape the heat.
“Harry!” Cho yelled to him from not too far away. “I thought you said you weren’t going to light the ground on fire!”
“It’s  just  a  little  addition  to  the  playing field,  to  remind  you  not  to  touch  the ground,”  Professor  Flitwick  said,  flying  around  it  and making  sure  it  was  hot  enough.
“Now, I don’t think any of you will forget!” He flew over to his little safety box in the top corner of the room. “Are you all ready to begin? On your marks… get set… go!”
Harry  immediately  shot  off,  aiming  for  a  large,  nearby  floating  wall.  He  hid behind it, and waited for Hermione. He didn’t have to wait too long for her to show up; she came over and flew right next to him.
“Do  you  really  think  someone’s  going  to  try  and  steal  it  again?”  she  asked, holding onto her Bracelet  as if it was the most valuable item in the world, which it almost was.
“I  don’t  know…”  said  Harry,  quickly  peering  over  the  side  of  the  wall  and
 
watching a  small  fight  going  on  between  Justin  and Ginny. She  easily  beat  him  with  a single spell, and he collapsed to the fiery ground where he was teleported to the safe room with Flitwick.
“Well… what are we going to do?” she asked impatiently.
“Just wait here for a while,” said Harry, looking back.
“Oh	come	on!”	she	whined.	“I	want	to	go	out	there	and	fight!”
“Who are you and what have you down with Hermione?” Harry asked. Hermione was never that assertive.
“I don’t know…” she sighed, flying around a bit. “Just being up here… right in the middle of a meeting… I just want to fight!”
“Well, if nothing happens for a little while, we can go out.”
“Fine…”
“SURPRISE!” yelled Ernie and Neville suddenly, popping out of nowhere in front of Harry and Hermione. They both had wide and evil grins on their faces, and their wands were in attack position. The two of them came up so quickly, Harry had no time to react to their surprise attacks.
“Pagos!” they bother yelled together, Neville aiming for Harry and Ernie aiming for Hermione. An icy blue beam erupted from their wands, hitting them both and making Harry feel as though his entire body was no more than a big ice cube.
“What do you want?” yelled Harry, surprised that he could still use his mouth.
“I think we both all know the answer to that,” spat Neville, coming a little closer to Harry and eyeing Hermione’s Bracelet.
“You can’t have it!” Harry yelling, knowing well that he couldn’t do anything to stop them.
“Oh yeah?” said Ernie mockingly, hovering closer to Hermione. “Why not?”
“Because it’s hers!” yelled someone else. The four of  them looked up, and saw Malfoy suddenly drop down from above right down onto Ernie and Neville. He did a fancy turn in the air, hitting Neville’s face with his board, and then punching Ernie’s nose with his fist while his body was still horizontal. The two of them spat blood in the air, and Harry saw their eyes roll back into their head as they started falling to the floor.
“Malfoy!”  yelled  Harry  and  Hermione  together,  still  frozen.  “You saved  us…
 
again!”

 


“Yeah, well, I don’t want You-Know-Who to get the Bracelet any more than you
 
do,” he admitted, performing the counter curse on the two of them. Harry felt the blood start flowing in the body below his head again, and he could move.
“Thanks for  saving us, Malfoy,” said Harry, moving around in the air a bit. “But, you do know, we are still in a duel, right?”
“Yeah, I know. But, friendships and beating Voldemort  are things that are more important  than  winning  a  silly  duel.  Besides…  everyone  knows  I’m  better  than  you anyway.”
“Yeah  right!”  yelled  Harry.  “I  beat  you  last  year  at  the  final  tournament!”
“But I beat you at the last meeting.”
“Yeah, well I-”
“Enough!” yelled Hermione, putting her hands out and signaling for the two boys to  stop bickering. “This is  more  than just  a duel now. Voldemort  has a strong presence
 
here, and we have to try and be wary of it. If it wasn’t for you, Malfoy, he could be making the Immortal Potion right now.”
“No he couldn’t,” said Harry. “I still have the Ring!”
“That’s beside the point!” she said, shaking her head and arms. “Let’s just take it slow and make sure that no one else tries to get the Bracelet, okay? Then, when it comes down to the three of us, we’ll know everything’s okay and we can just duel.”
“Sounds more like a way to guarantee that you make it to the end rather than a way to help protect the Bracelet,” snickered Malfoy, flying over Hermione’s head. “Why don’t you just give one of us the Bracelet?”
“No,” hissed Hermione. “Let’s just get back in the game, and see what happens.”
“Fine,”  shrugged  Harry.  He  peered  over  the  large  wall  that  they  were  hiding behind again to  see  if  the  coast  was clear.  It pretty  much was; except  for  Joe  who was flying around aimlessly, wand out, and looking for a fight. “The coast is clear… except for underwear on the outside boy.”
“Alright, we’ll go out as a group,” announced Malfoy. “Follow me.”
He quickly hovered to  the head of  the two and went out slowly, with Harry and Hermione  following  behind.  Not  wanting  to  feel  as  though  he  was  following  behind Malfoy, Harry shot off to the right of him, and yelled at Joe.
“Ha ha!” he yelled at him, taking out his wand. “I see you!”
“Now you don’t!” grinned Joe,  tapping himself  with his  wand and disappearing suddenly. Harry stopped in midair.
“Woah, where’d he go?”
“He turned himself invisible,” said Malfoy, looking around.
“But  Invisibility  Charms  are  far  too  advanced  for  Second  Years!”  exclaimed
Hermione, looking around nervously.
“Joe!” Harry yelled. “Come on out and fight!”
“Harry!” yelled Hermione, looking as though she were struggling with some sort of invisible force. “Something’s got my Bracelet!”
Harry looked over at her, but he was too late. By the time she was in his sights, the Bracelet  had been forced off  of her arm, and was zipping around the room, flying at insane speeds.
“Ah!” gasped Hermione. “Hurry and get it!”
Harry didn’t even give time to respond. He shot off  right after the Bracelet  that was  zooming  around  in  midair  and  giving  everything  he  got  to  try  and  catch  up  to  it. Despite the fact that the Bracelet was enchanted, it was quite slow and it wasn’t too much longer before Harry was right behind it. He extended his arms as much as he could, to try and grab it. When he could just feel the cold metal touch the tips of his fingers, he grabbed hold of it, stopping it right where it was.
Harry gripped the bracelet as hard as he could, so much that the encrusted gems on it  were  digging into  his flesh, almost  to  the  point  of  bleeding. But, it  seemed every second, the force pulling on the other side of Bracelet was getting stronger. So, knowing he was fighting a losing battle, Harry did the only thing he could do: let go.
As soon as his fingers let loose  of it, the Bracelet flew high into to the air, not being held onto by anything. Harry watched it soar up to its maximum height, then begin to fall.
 
“Malfoy!” Harry yelled to him, seeing that he was closer  to the falling item. “Get the Bracelet!”
Malfoy nodded and flew right at it, trying to estimate about where it would fall to. He stopped when he was just  above the fiery  ground, arms up and hands open, ready to catch it. The Bracelet fell, faster and faster towards his wide open palms, until suddenly, an instant before he would have caught it, another force flew by and whisked it off to the side.
Malfoy,  a little  shaken from  not  catching it,  shot  after  the  Bracelet  again, not letting it get more than a few feet away from him. He extended his arms out, ready to grab it, when just then, the Bracelet was ‘thrown’ by the invisible force through the air, where it was then caught by another force  that was well out of  Malfoy’s range that started flying away with it. It was as if there were invisible people all over, playing a very serious game of keep away….
“That’s it!” yelled Harry out loud. “Invisible people! Malfoy!”
“Yeah?” he asked, looking a little tired.
“Do you know any spells that can turn invisible people visible again?”
“Sure do,” Malfoy grinned, understanding. He ripped his wand out of his pocket and aimed it in the general direction of everywhere. “Pasvoir!”
A small, almost invisible orb appeared at the tip of his wand that quickly grew to the  size  of  a basketball, then a human, then an elephant, then unimaginable size,  almost filling the  entire  room.  It gave off  some  sort  of  electric  wave as  it  expanded, bringing everything that used to be invisible back to the real world.
Harry looked around for signs of anyone, and didn’t have to look very hard. Flying all around them was the rest  of  his Quidditch team, excluding Ak. Joe,  Mike, Chris  and Akshay were all hovering about, throwing the Bracelet  to  each other  and keeping it well out of the way of Harry or Malfoy. Apparently, they hadn’t yet realized that they were no longer invisible and that Harry and Malfoy could see them perfectly.
Just  as Mike received the  Bracelet  from  Joe,  Harry shot  at him, faster  than he ever had before. Mike turned to him, still thinking he was invisible, and merely threw it to Chris, thinking that Harry would just now turn his attention to the other ‘invisible’ force. But, Harry did not such thing. He just kept going straight for Mike and grabbed him by the neck.
“What do you think you’re doing?” spat Harry, lifting him up slightly.
“What do  you think we’re  doing?” grinned Mike,  not  having a bit  of  a look  of surprise  or  fear  on  his  face.  Harry  took  a  closer  look  at  him,  and saw that  there  was something very different about him… his eyes. He had no pupils, irises, nothing. All there was were two white circles. They were definitely not acting on their own… someone else was controlling them, like last time.
But, Harry had a more pressing issue. He could ponder over what was controlling them  later.  Right  now, he  had to  get  the  Bracelet  back  before  one  of  them  took  it  to Voldemort.
He  used  a  stupefy  spell  on  Mike  and  watched  him  fall  fairly  quickly  to  the flaming ground, then be teleported  to  Flitwick’s safety  room  which now had more  than half of the entire club inside it.
Harry  looked  at  the  remaining  three  children,  each  of  whom  seemed  to  have
 
realized that they were no longer invisible. They threw the Bracelet one last time, to Joe, who shot across the field with it, trying to reach an open window in the side of the Great Hall and escape through it. Harry flew off right after him, to try and catch up, but Malfoy got to him first. He grabbed Joe by the leg and used some sort of Dark Spell that turned his entire body to Stone when he touched Joe with his wand. The transformation of flesh to Stone started at Joe’s feet, and worked its way up to his head rather slowly.
Just as his arm was about to become a rock, Joe used every ounce of strength he had and threw the Bracelet  to  Akshay. He shot off  after  it, getting ready to  catch it, but Harry was faster with his wand.
“Accio  Bracelet!”  he  yelled,  aiming  right  for  it.  The  Bracelet  immediately changed its direction and began soaring right over to Harry’s hand. He caught it in his palm and held onto it tight. This, however, did not stop Akshay’s desire to get it. He gave a hiss, showed off his teeth, and flew right at Harry, arms and hands extended out.
Harry just gave a sigh and shot a Stupefy Spell right at Akshay, hitting him long before he would have gotten to Harry. The spell immediately knocked him out and he fell to the floor unconscious.
Now, the only one left was Chris, and he didn’t look as though he was in any hurry to try and attack Harry or Malfoy. He just spun around and shot off. But, he wasn’t as fast as either  of  his opponents, and Harry quickly grabbed hold of  him. Malfoy arrived soon after.
“Let go of me!” he yelled, trying to shake Harry’s magically enhanced grip off.
“Not until you tell us who has possessed you!” yelled Malfoy, looking as though he was trying as hard as he could to resist  the urge to use some sort of torture spell on him.
“Fine!” yelled Chris, stopping his shaking. “I’ll tell you who it was.”
Just then, his face gave a quick, spastic shake and his eyes turned back to normal.
“Well…?” asked Harry, still not letting go.
“Well what?” asked Chris, looking a little dazed.
“Who was controlling you!?” demanded Malfoy, gritting his teeth.
“What?” asked Chris, rubbing his forehead. “What are you talking about?”
“It seems as though whoever was controlling him has just stopped,” said Malfoy, looking around, as if trying to see a ghost or something that may have popped out of his head.
“What? Someone was controlling me?”
“Did  you  recognize  the  spell  used  on  him?”  asked  Harry,  ignoring  Chris  and letting go of his leg. Just like last time, whoever had been controlling them removed the spell just before they were about to be told the answer to their question.
“Yeah, but it’s not one any of  the kids here  would know,” said Malfoy, looking like he was thinking hard. “It’s one that I’ve only heard of… one that You-Know-Who only teaches  to  his most elite  members. It’s an advanced version of  the Imperius Curse. It is completely unresistable, that is, once  it is  cast  on you, you can’t get it  off,  now matter what.  In  addition  to  that,  it  also  puts  some  of  your  strength  into  the  person  you’re controlling.  That would explain  why they  were  all  able  to  put  an Invisibility  Charm  on themselves.”
“So, who here could have put it on them?”
 
“No one we know,” said Malfoy, looking down. “Especially not Neville or Ernie. Not only did the person who put the curse on them know the extremely advanced spell, but they were powerful enough to put it on four people at once.”
“Excuse me!” interjected Chris suddenly. “But, what’s going on here?”
“Oh yeah, that reminds me,” said Harry. “We’re having a duel Chris, and I’m afraid you’ve lost. Stupefy!”
Before  Chris even realized what was going to  happen, the red beam shot out of
Harry’s wand and hit him, sending him to the fiery ground.
“Now let’s  find Hermione  and give her  the  Bracelet  back,” said Harry. Malfoy nodded, and they started off  again in search of  her. They checked behind the wall where the three of them were hiding previously and sure enough, she was there, biting her nails and hovering from side to side, pacing in midair.
“Hermione, we’ve got it back!” announced Harry, holding it up to show her. She immediately looked over and her eyes grew wide with a hungry look.
“Gimme that!” she yelled, shooting over to  him, ripping the Bracelet  out of  his hands and quickly putting it back on her arm.
“Ahh,” she said, slipping it back on. “That’s better.”
“Well,” sighed  Harry,  looking  around just  to  be  sure.  “I guess  you  were  right, Hermione. It has come down to just the three of us.”
“NOT EXACTLY!” yelled Neville, one again, coming out of nowhere right on top of  the three  of  them. He fell  onto  Malfoy’s shoulders  and squeezed his legs around his neck. He pointed his wand right at Malfoy’s chest from his new position.
“Petrificus Totalus!” he yelled. Malfoy’s body immediately went stiff and he fell to the ground, was gobbled up by the flames, and then sent to the safety room.
“NO!” yelled Harry.
“I  know,”  sighed  Neville  sarcastically.  “It  was  a  crude  spell…  but  hey,  it worked… didn’t it?”
“Stupefy!” yelled Harry, shooting backwards a little and aiming right for Neville. The spell blasted from his wand, but too late; he easily dodged it.
“Hah! You’ll need better than that to defeat me!” yelled Neville, zooming around.
“Something like that may have beaten Ernie, but not me. I’m a year ahead of him.”
“Yeah, but you’re still a million years behind me!” yelled Harry, going backwards even more, so he would have time to avoid anything that Neville shot at him.
“Think so?” asked Neville, stroking his wand a bit. “Then take this! Onino Hebi!” A massive, flaming snake erupted out of Neville’s wand. It gave an ear shattering
hiss and showed off it’s mouthful of fangs that was dripping with a light-green venom. It’s eyes were the only thing besides its teeth that were not on fire, and they were pure black and never blinking. Once they caught sight of Harry, they didn’t move.
The snake lashed out at Harry, like some sort of horrible fire whip. Harry backed away just in time to miss it’s deadly bite, but the snake did not look any less determined. It merely doubled its length and tried again. Harry was quickly running out of space to back up into. He had to think of something else….
“Tri Oplo!” yelled Harry quickly, having an idea and aiming right for its head. The three spheres hit, and the snake gave a painful hiss. Harry took this opportunity to quickly dash across the field and stop right behind Neville.
 
“What do you think you’re doing!?” he spat as the snake recovered from the hit and turned around to find its victim.
“Let’s see how loyal your snake is!” yelled Harry, giving Neville a hard push. The snake  immediately  turned  its  attention  to  this  new source  of  movement  and lashed  out right at its new target. Harry quickly hovered backwards, out of the way of its attack.
“AAAHHH!” yelled Neville as the snake tore a piece of his flesh off. Just as the snake reared back, to get ready for another bite, Harry decided to show a little mercy.
“Stupefy!”  he  yelled,  hitting  the  distracted  Neville.  As  soon  as  the  spell  hit, Neville went limp and his snake disappeared. Harry watched him fall all the way down to the ground, then disappear.
“Well,” sighed Harry to himself, “at least now I don’t have to fight Malfoy.”
Harry scanned the area for anyone else, to see if anyone was left to fight. Maybe he had just won the duel and he didn’t even know it!
“Fucillius!” came a voice from not too far away. Evidently, there were still others on the field. Harry quickly, but stealthily flew over to investigate. He grabbed onto a pear- shaped obstacle  and peered over it. There, he saw Hermione  engaged in a duel with not one, not two, but three others! It was her against Ak, Tci and Aylar, and she didn’t look as though she was going to win.
“Stupefy!” yelled Aylar, delivering the final blow. Hermione collapsed and fell to the ground. But, instead of starting to fight each other as Harry would have expected them to, the three  of  them just  hovered there, as if  waiting for  someone  else  to  come  along. What was going on? Harry decided not to question it right now and to just take advantage of the opportunity of all three of them being sitting ducks.
“Siragus!” he yelled, creeping up over the top of the obstacle and aiming right for the  middle  of  the  three.  Before  any of  them  realized  what was  going  on,  there  was  a massive explosion in midair, right where Harry had aimed for. When the dust cleared soon after,  Harry saw that Aylar and Ak were  gone.  Only Tci was left,  and he  looked  in  bad shape.
“What were you doing?” Harry asked him as he flew down. “You’re not supposed to  have  teams  in  this.  Why  didn’t  the  three  of  you  fight  each  other  after  you  beat Hermione?”
Tci just gave him a dazed look. Blood was all over his face, as was ash and dust. Evidently, the explosion had hit him directly since he was in the middle of the three, and done the most damage to him.
“We can’t… do… each other…” he gasped, looking as though he might fall any second, which is exactly what he did an instant later.
“Oh  well,”  Harry  shrugged  to  himself.  He  remembered  that  he,  Malfoy,  and Hermione had kind of been a team before, and that maybe Aylar, Tci, and Ak were doing the same. They were, after all, three of the best fighters there. But, Harry, Hermione and Malfoy had promised to fight each other when everyone else had been defeated….
Suddenly, Harry felt a tap on his shoulder. He turned around and saw a grinning Ak behind him, with his wand pointing directly  at Harry’s chest.  Before  he had time  to react, Ak used a Stupefy on him and Harry’s world turned black all around him as he fell down towards the fiery ground.
For once, neither himself or Malfoy had won the duel.
 
Chapter 17- The Geb Pyramid

A while after  the duel was finally over, Harry learned from talking with Ak that his Siragus Spell had knocked out Tci and Aylar, but not him. He only got a little ash from it, and he hid behind an obstacle, waiting for  just the right time  to  pop out and surprise Harry. Since there were no more duelers left after him, Ak had won.
Harry also learned that during the duel, students from all over the school had been watching them through clear glass enchanted to look like the Great Hall’s walls. Almost everyone, including every professor, had come down to watch the match, to try and lift up their spirit’s a little bit more from the trip’s cancellation, which everyone was slowly but surely getting over.
Despite all of this new knowledge Harry gained, he still had no clue who had been controlling the four boys during the match. Harry dared not talk about it with anyone else except for Malfoy, Hermione, and Ron. The fewer people that knew about the fact that he and Hermione both had ingredients to the Immortal potion on their arm, the better. Harry was almost  tempted to  tell  Ak, but their  friendship was still  in the developmental stage, and trust was still not a set thing. Harry decided against it, and it was probably because he only discussed it with such a small amount of people that he didn’t find out anything new.

The weeks went by quickly, and then the weeks soon turned into months. Harry was surprised at how fast school seemed to be going by, especially since nothing exciting was going on. There were not more Gryffindor Quidditch matches planned until the end of the year since they had lost their previous one. Though, since Slytherin slaughtered both Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff in their matches, it was confirmed that Gryffindor would be in the finals, though only by a little. Also, there were no more Dueling Club meetings, not until the final one at the end of the year in front of everyone.
There   were   no   more   Wizard  Duel   meetings   either.   Despite   the   fact   that Dumbledore  was not  going to  make  the  trip’s  date  any earlier,  Ak didn’t budge on  his decision. Everyone was going crazy, wanting to have a good tournament. This seemed to lower most of the student’s want to play it every day, in fact, Harry believed that the only two people in the school that played every day were himself and Ron, though Ak yelled at them each time, to try and get them to stick with him.
Prefect meetings were just the absolute lowest point of Harry’s day. The rest of them were almost as boring and useless as the first one. They did nothing expect talk about possible  prefects  for  next  year  from  the  fourth  years,  and changing the  school  dinner menu.  Harry  suspected  that  they  were  no  more  than recruiting  grounds  for  new Death Eaters. Each meeting, it seemed as though more and more still had their letters with them, and they showed no sign of throwing them out.
In fact, the only thing somewhat exciting that happened (besides a most peculiar incident in Transfiguration where everyone spontaneously grew an extra arm) was Harry’s next  date  with  Cho.  This  time,  he  wanted  to  have  a  violent-free  and  Voldemort-free excursion, so he took the liberty of planning it. He made reservations at a place called the Collateral Café in Hogsmeade, a place where you didn‘t have to pay for your meal if you left  quickly  enough, but you had to  give the  waiter  something of  yours  before  you sat down. So, if you didn’t pay, the restaurant would be able to keep the thing you gave them.
 
It was very interesting to see  some of the wonderful items that the restaurant had collected  over  the  years  that were  hung on  the  wall, and seeing people  all  over  eating, some  without a shoe, a shirt, or  some  that even gave away their  hairpieces.  At first,  the waiter wanted Harry’s Ring, but the thought of giving it away was more than Harry could bare, so he gave him his glasses  instead. It was a wonderful meal there, especially since Wormtail didn’t show up at the end, trying to cut off Harry’s fingers.
Despite  this one evening of  fun, the rest  of  the next few months was downright boring, and Harry, along with the  rest  of  the  school,  was ecstatic  when the  day finally came that they would all leave for their field trip to the Egyptian Pyramid.
Once  again,  Harry  woke  up  before   anyone  else   in  his  room  and  sprinted downstairs excitedly with his packed trunk. All the way down to the Great Hall, Harry kept one eye open for  Dobby, to try and not be surprised by him if he attempted to stop him from going on the trip again. But, Dobby must have given up on that effort, for Harry never saw so  much as a sock  of  him by the time  he finally got to  the biggest  single  room  in Hogwarts.
Harry quickly sat down at the Gryffindor table, his legs bouncing anxiously. There were  about  ten  other   students   down  there   now,  each  waiting  for   the  same  thing: Dumbledore’s announcement that the trip was on.
As the Hall began filling up at quite an alarming rate, almost ten or twenty more students  every minute  now, Harry  could  feel  the  tension  in  the  room  building, and his excitement growing. If Dumbledore dared to cancel this trip, he would surely not live long enough to regret it.
“Hey Harry,” yawned Ron when he finally arrived down, carrying his small bag.
“You’re up early.”
“Too excited to sleep.”
“Enh,” grunted Ron, sitting down. “I don’t know what everyone’s so excited about this  trip  for.  I went to  the  Egyptian Pyramids  before,  and you’ve seen  one  you’ve seen them all.”
“Yes, but you’re the only one here that’s seen one,” yawned Harry back.
It wasn’t too  much longer  before  Hermione  and Malfoy arrived, along with the rest of the second years and up. Harry waved to the sleepy-looking Malfoy, wishing that he could join them at the Gryffindor table.
“Good morning students!” called Dumbledore in far too cheery of a voice for the ungodly hour that they were all up. “Are you all ready to go?”
“Yeah,” grunted, yawned, and belched the mass of students.
“Well, before we leave, I have an announcement,” continued Dumbledore, putting his hands down. “Just one small one… I’m afraid… the trip has been cancelled.”
No one said anything. They just froze there, mouths opened wide and eyes glazed over. The hall was quieter than the most silent silence in the world.
“Just kidding!” laughed Dumbledore, giving a weak cough.
“That’s not funny!” yelled most of the students back, recovering from their state of almost-fainting.
“Oh, I’m sorry,” apologized Dumbledore. “But, I couldn’t resist. You all need to learn how to take a joke.
“Anyways, I  do  have an actual  announcement.  We  will  be  leaving for  the  Geb
 
Pyramid momentarily. The Hogwarts Express will be taking us there and I need all of the seventh year prefects to escort their house’s third years out of the main door, and to the train, and all the sixth year prefects to escort their house’s second years out of the main door, and to the train. I would also like it if they would remain with their students on the Express so that they can keep an eye on them, and they do not fall out of the window.”
“How can they fall out of the windows?” asked Ron.
“Well, we can’t cross water on a train, now can we?” said Hermione.
“Yeah, but what does that have to do with anything?”
“Oh come on, Ron,” said Harry, realizing what must happen. “We’re going to fly there, aren’t we, Hermione?”
“Well yeah.”
“Heh,” laughed Ron quickly. “I could just picture Joe falling out of it.”
“And now,” announced Dumbledore,  putting his hands together  and sounding as though he was wrapping up. “To the train!”
“Yay!” yelled all of  the students  as they all jumped up and ran out of  the door, causing some major blockage and crowding.
“Aren’t you  going  to  help  your  second  years?” Hermione  asked  Harry  as  they waited patiently to leave. They didn’t want to be any part in that massive jumble.
“Nah, they can figure it out for themselves.”
Harry looked behind him and saw that they crowding was quickly clearing up. The three of them sat up and walked out of the door, following the massive group to the main Hogwarts door. There, right in front of them was the Hogwarts Express, just as it usually looked, except without the tracks beneath it. How could that thing possibly fly?
Harry  decided  to  not  question  it,  just  to  accept  it,  and  get  on  that  train.  He climbed aboard and sat down with Ron and Hermione in their usual compartment.
“Come  on,  Harry,” nagged Hermione.  “Live up to  the  prefect  name! Check  on your little ones!”
“No.”
“Come on…”
“No.”
“Come on…”
“No!”
“Come on… please?”
“Fine!” sighed Harry angrily, standing up. “I’ll see them!”
“Thank you.”
Harry walked out of their compartment and down the train’s hall, looking through every open door, to see where they were sitting. He didn’t have to look for long. All five of them were in one compartment.
“Go go  go!” they  were  all  chanting. Harry  peeked  inside  and saw that  Joe  had already managed to  put half of  himself  through the window that was barely opened. His head and torso were outside and his wriggling legs were still in.
“What do you think you’re doing?” Harry demanded, stepping inside.
“Seeing how far he can go through,” said Akshay.
“It’s only been a few seconds and he’s already halfway through,” announce Mike.
“Yeehaw!” yelled Chris. “Maybe he’ll fall out in the ocean if we’re lucky!”
 
“Meh will send you a postcard!” barked Joe from outside.
“Don’t you think that’s a little… stupid?” asked Harry.
“Don’t worry,” said Aylar, looking like he was enjoying this. “I’ll protect him.”
“Fine,” said Harry, leaving as Mike was giggling and drawing Kanji on Joe’s pants. Harry just gave a sigh and closed the compartment door, hearing more chants. He looked around,  to  try  and find  his  way back,  when he  saw a  most  unusual  compartment  door. Instead of being wood like all the others, this one was a light gold and had a plaque on it that read ‘Private’.
Harry, knowing that curiosity had not killed that cat but rather an overfilled litter box, decided to investigate a bit more. He crept over the door and put his ear up to it, to see if he could hear anything.
Then, just as he thought he could hear something through the door, it swung open and Harry stumbled onto the ground.
“Harry!” said the person who had opened the door. Harry looked up quickly from his  point  on  the  ground and saw Dumbledore  looming above him. “What are  you doing here? Shouldn’t you be in a compartment?”
“Um…”  stuttered  Harry,  trying  to  think  of  something  quick.  “I uh…  had…  a question for you….”
“Well?” asked Dumbledore, kind of impatiently.
“Well… um… won’t Muggles see  this thing flying in the sky?” he asked. Harry was impressed that he came up with a decently good question right there on the spot.
“That was not too difficult of a problem to solve,” said Dumbledore, closing the compartment door behind him to Harry couldn’t see in. “We merely enchanted it to look like a flock of birds flying above to anyone that caught a glimpse of it.”
“But why go through all that trouble to disguise the train?” asked Harry, standing up and feeling more confident with his questioning now. “Couldn’t you just Apparate all of there or something?”
“Oh yes, we very well could have Apparated you all, or even used Floo Powder,” said Dumbledore. “But, Harry, life is more about the journey than the actual destination. Life isn’t about arriving at death, but enjoying the paths you take and its many twists and turns. So, I say enjoy the clouds floating by and the birds singing as we fly along. You’ll miss all that when you are able to Apparate.”
“I see,” said Harry, not really getting it. “Thank you, professor.”
“Anytime,” said Dumbledore. “And Harry… one last thing.”
“What is it?”
“Stay away from this door,” he grinned.
“Of course,” bowed Harry as Dumbledore  quickly slipped back into  his  private compartment. Once the door was completely shut, Harry ran back to his corridor, wanting to get this trip underway.
“Oh! Welcome back, Harry!” said Ron when he opened the door. To his surprise, there were now three more people in the tiny room, Malfoy, Ginny, and Cho.
“What are you three doing in here?” asked Harry, taking the only available seat.
“What, are we not welcome?” asked Malfoy.
“No, it’s just that, usually on me, Ron and Hermione sit here.”
“Well,  I  don’t  want  to  spend  any  more  time  with  those  two  bumbling  idiots
 
Crabbe and Goyle than I have to,” grunted Malfoy.
“And I  missed  my  Dracie-Poo!”  squeaked  Ginny,  giving  Malfoy  a  kiss.  Their relationship was much more bearable now, and Harry found that he didn’t cringe at all.
“Me too,” said Cho. “Only… Harry instead.”
“Great,” said Harry. “Now we have all three couples in one room.”
Just then, the train gave a lurch forward, and stated moving. Very slowly at first, then faster and faster, much more quick than its usual speed. Faster and faster it went, until they were only a few hundred feet  from the Forbidden Forest. Then, just when the train was about to collide with the trees, it magically jumped up into the air and flew high above them, right alongside the clouds.

Dumbledore had been right. It was a very enjoyable trip on the train. The six of them  laughed  and  talked  together,  forgetting  all  about  Hogwarts  and  schoolwork  and everything bad in their life. They were having such a good time, that none of them wanted to get off the train what felt like only a minute later (but was actually around two hours) that they arrived.
“Come on!” announced Dumbledore, walking up and down the halls. “We’re there, it’s time to get off!”
“I guess I’d better  go check on my little  second years,” said Harry, standing up.
“I’ll meet you all outside.”
With that, he left  the compartment and sought after the five terrors.  He opened their compartment, and inside were five laughing children, with Joe in the middle, covered in multicolored characters.
“Meh fell out three times!” he squealed, putting up four fingers and looking like he could use a week in the Hospital Wing.
“Um… good for you,” said Harry, rolling his eyes. “Come on. It’s time to leave.” After a few whines of  disagreement, Harry convinced the five of  them to come
out. They, along with the  rest  of  the  passengers  on the  train, exited quickly and arrived outside.
The first difference Harry noticed about this new setting was the heat. He thought that a bright Quidditch match day was hot, but that was nothing compared to this. Harry’s head was already covered in sweat. He immediately took off his heavy, black robe, along with his tie. Harry had to resist the urge to remove his final shirt, which was wet all over.
The sun was also  much more  intense  here.  It hit  the  sand, reflecting right into Harry’s  eyes,  practically  blinding him. All around, everything was lighter,  almost  white from the powerful rays. Harry tapped his glasses with his wand and they magically turned darker, keeping out some of the sun.
“Another  wonderful  Egyptian day,” commented  Ron  who  just  got  off  he  train, holding his hand above his eyes
“Ah yes,  nice  and warm,” said  Malfoy,  squinting and coming  out  with his  arm around Ginny’s neck. He turned to her. “My my Ginny, you look awfully hot in that robe… may I take it off for you?”
“I’m still getting used to you, Malfoy,” said Ron. “Don’t blow it.”
“Attention students!” announced Dumbledore, getting ahead of the massive group of students. He was floating in the air a little, so that everyone could see him. “Follow me
 
to the Geb Pyramid!”
Harry  looked  ahead for  the  first  time,  and saw before  him  one  of  the  largest structures he had ever seen. It was at least twice as large as Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes Inc., and it was made entirely out of massive, stone bricks.
“Please,  follow  me  inside  and  you  will  all  be  divided  up  into  groups  and  be allowed to explore  the pyramid freely,” he continued, trying to get the attention of over four hundred sweaty and anxious kids.
He waved his arm, signaling to them to follow. Harry got back into his group of six,  and  they,  along  with  the  hundreds  of  others  treaded  across  the  hot  desert  sand, removing more and more articles of clothing as they went along. Harry looked around as they moved forward and saw that there was nothing but sand as far as the eye could see. Except for the train, the mass of students, and the pyramid, sand was all that there was.
The group walked up closer to the pyramid, so much that Harry saw that the bricks that  were  making it  up were  even bigger  than Hagrid,  almost  five  times  his  size.  They walked all  the  way up to  a  single,  massive  stone,  the  only  one  that  was going  vertical instead of horizontal.
“Now,” said Dumbledore when the group had caught up to him. “This block here is exactly like Platform 9 ¾. All you need to do is walk right through it to get inside.”
Dumbledore immediately stepped through the giant Stone, as if it were a normal door,  melting right  through it  like  water.  When it  appeared as  though he  did it  without being hurt at all, the rest of the students traveled through as well. Even though Harry was used to  things like that by now, it was still  extremely eerie,  seeing dozens of  kids flow through the solid brick, disappearing onto the other side. Harry soon joined them on the other side as well, walking through the solid brick as if it were air.
What was on the  other  side  surprised  Harry so  much, he stopped in his tracks. Instead of appearing in a musty and dark tunnel inside the pyramid, he found himself in the middle of a very nice room, furnished almost exactly like a very large version of a hotel lobby, except where there would be benches and chairs, there were beds and cots instead. Next to a small window in the wall (which had a small office behind it) there was a single, ordinary looking door  that read ‘To The Inside of  the  Pyramid’. A man appeared in the window next to the door.
“Why hello Dumbledore!” he said in a cheery voice. He was dressed like a hotel bellboy and sounded like one too. “We’ve been expecting you.”
“Hello Mark,” said Dumbledore back, stepping through a few children that were gazing at the marvelous paintings on the walls to get to him. “Is your guide ready to tell us a little bit about this place?”
“He most  certainly is,” said Mark, spinning around in his chair. “Hey Bob! The group’s here!” He  spun back to  face  Dumbledore  and the  group. “Bob will be with you shortly.”
“How is  he going to  get to  us?” asked Hermione  quietly. “There’s no doors  or anything coming out of the office.”
Hermione’s question was immediately answered as Bob all of  a sudden popped out of  the wall next to the window. Bob was evidently not a human, but a ghost. He was dressed very nicely, all done up in a suit  and tie.  He also  had no hair at all, unless  you counted the two little translucent puffs above his ears.
 
“Why hello  everyone!”  he  said  loudly,  clapping  his  hands  together  and  flying around the room. “I’m so happy you could come to visit the Geb Pyramid, it’s really the best one in all of Egypt; that’s why I’ve chosen to live here for the past two thousand and six years. I know more about this place than the people who built it!”
“Well  then,  why  don’t  you  give  us  a  little   introduction  to   it?”  suggested
Dumbledore.
“That sounds like a splendid idea,” said Bob, bringing a chair up with him so he could sit down in it. “Well, first of all, no one knows exactly when the Geb Pyramid was built. We  do, however, know how and why it  was built. It was originally constructed by Ancient Egyptian Wizards who, using some of their primitive magic, floated these massive blocks of Stone that make up this pyramid up on ramps.
“Now,  why it  was  constructed  is  a  completely  different  story.  The  Egyptians wanted  a  place  where  heroes  could  go  to  test  their  speed,  courage,  intelligence  and strength.  And,  once  they  passed  the  test,  could  be  immortalized  for  all  eternity.  This pyramid is that place.
“However, so  many people  tried  their  luck at this  place,  the  death toll  rose  to unbelievable  numbers.  The Pharaoh ordered  his  best  wizards to  hide  this  pyramid from view, and erase it from ever existing. But, using modern magical techniques, we have been able  to  break  those  primitive  charms  and  allow  all  wizards  and  witches  to  enjoy  its splendor.
“Now, if you all would please divide up into groups of five, you will be assigned a guide, and we can get on our way taking in some of that splendor.”
The somewhat organized group now broke up into chaos.
“Will you be in my group?”
“You want to be in my group?”
“Hey you! You’re in my group!”
That was all that could be heard for a while. But, Harry had to join in it, to figure out who was going to be with him.
“Let’s see… me, Hermione, Ron, Malfoy, Ginny, and Cho,” said Harry. “Oh no! That’s six!”
“But, I don’t see Cho anywhere,” said Ron, looking around.
“What? She was here just a minute ago.” Harry looked around too, but she was nowhere in sight.
“She probably went off with some of her other friends,” said Malfoy.
“But-”
“Let her go,” said Hermione. “You two need a little time apart.”
“Yeah, I guess you’re right. She should spend some time with her other friends.”
“Well,  now we’re  a group of  five!” announced  Malfoy,  putting his  arm  around
Ginny again.
“Um… no you’re not,” said Bob the ghost who suddenly flew over them.
“No, we are,” said Ginny. “Me, Draco, Harry, Hermione and Ron. That’s five!”
“Yes, but I’m afraid we have a strict rule here at the Geb Pyramid School Tours,” said Bob apologetically. “You can’t have two people  from  the  same family in the  same group.”
“What? Why not?” demanded Hermione.
 
“Because if something were to happen to your group, we want the family to still have one child, now don’t we,” said Bob, glaring at her. “One of you two Weasleys has got to go.”
“How do you know Ron’s last name?” asked Harry.
“The Weasleys visited us three Summers ago,” said Bob lazily. “On their Egyptian tour and I never forget a face.”
“Fine fine,” said Ginny, putting her hands up, I’ll leave.”
“No Ginny!” begged Malfoy. “Please stay!”
“Come  on,  Malfoy,”  she  said.  “Harry  and  Cho  are  spending  some  time  apart, maybe we should have a few hours to ourselves.”
“But  those  few  hours  are  like  knives  in  my  heart,”  said  Malfoy  clutching  his
 
chest.

 


“Oh come on, you,” she giggled. “I haven’t spent much time with my other friends
 
lately. I’ll meet you back here at night.”
“Oh fine…  be  gone  if  you  must,”  said  Malfoy  sadly  and softly,  falling  to  his knees. Ginny just a gave a small laugh and started working her way through the crowd.
“Now we need another person,” said Ron, looking around.
“Hey Harry!” called  Ak, stepping into  their  little  assembly. “You think I could join you? Almost everyone else’s group is full.”
“Sure,” said Harry. “We needed another person anyways.”
“Thanks,” said Ak, sounding almost out of breath.
“Does  everyone  have  a  group  now?”  asked  Dumbledore,  flying  a  bit  above everyone, just to make sure.
“Yes!” yelled everyone in the giant crowd.
“Excellent. Now, you will all be given a guide. Either one of your professors  or one of the special Geb Pyramid guides will arrive at your group shortly. Please treat your guide with respect… especially if he or she is your professor.”
“I hope we don’t get Snape,” said Ron.
“I hope we don’t get Trelawney,” sighed Harry
The five of them waited… and waited… and waited… but no guide came to them. Harry saw other groups receive their teachers and leaders, but no one came to their group of five. Just when Harry thought they were going to have no one, Dumbledore came over to	them.
“Hello professor!” said Harry to him. “Are you going to be our guide?”
“What? Oh, no. No, I’m sorry, Harry,” he said to them. “I’m afraid that your group will not have a guide.”
“What!?” yelled the five of them together.
“But… we need a guide!” yelled Hermione. “How else  will we get the most from this trip? Who will tell us what the carvings mean? Who will keep us away from the cursed rooms? What will happen if we get hurt?”
“I  am  very  sorry,”  apologized  Dumbledore.  “But,  I  must  have  miscounted  or something and left one too many professors at Hogwarts to watch over the first years.”
“But… who will guide us?”
“Well… Ron knows a lot about this place,” suggested Dumbledore. “Let him lead you along!”
 
“Well… I did take the  tour  before,” said Ron, turning a little  red. “I suppose  I
could show you all around.”
“That’s the spirit,” said Dumbledore, hitting him on the back. “You’ll be fine!” With that, he walked back to the group his was guiding.
“Can you really show us around the pyramid?” asked Hermione, looking scared that she may not get ththe most out of this trip.
“Probably not…” muttered Ron.
“Alright students!” announced Dumbledore, hovering up a bit. “You are all free to go now. Be sure to stay with your guides and don’t trail too far from them, you don‘t want to end up taking the Hero‘s Test now do you? Lastly, remember to return to this room by ten  at night. This is  where  you will  all  sleep  tonight…  I trust  you all  brought sleeping bags.”
“Yes!”
“No…”
“Do rocks count?”
“Excellent!” continued Dumbledore, not paying attention to any negative answers.
“Now… go!”
There was a mad rush for the door as all the groups ran directly for it. Harry and the rest of his group, though, decided to wait a minute, until everyone else was gone. That didn’t take very long; in a matter of seconds, the entire room was cleared.
“Shall we?” asked Harry, waving an arm towards the door.
“Yes  we  shall,”  said  Malfoy,  running  up  to  it,  throwing  it  open,  and  running
 
through.

 


“Wait up for us!” yelled Harry, running after him along with the rest  of his group.
 
He  burst  through  the  door,  and bumped  right  into  Malfoy  who  was crawling along  the extremely narrow corridor, right behind the rest of the hundreds of students.
“Oh man,” grunted Harry, feeling a little claustrophobic. “Why are these hallways so narrow?”
“The builders didn’t see a reason to make them wider,” said Ron who was last in line of the five of hem. “They expected to have only one hero going through at a time… this entire place is like an anthill.”
They crept along the corridor, not too  far behind the rest  of  the students. Right now, there wasn’t much to see, just rocks on the walls. But, after a few minutes of walking slowly, they came to a fork in the path. All of the students were going down the right path, and the left one was blocked off by a velvet rope.
“So… which way do we go?” asked Malfoy when they got to the split.
“Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione. “The path that’s not blocked off obviously.”
“Oh  come  on!”  yelled  Malfoy,  leaning  on  the  rope.  “Where’s  your  sense  of adventure?”
“It’s down the  path that everyone  else  is  going,” she  said, trying to  creep  by Harry and
Malfoy who were in front of her.
“Don’t you want to learn everything you can about this place?”
“Well, yeah and everything I want to know is down this way.”
“Ron?” asked Malfoy. It was weird hearing him not referring to him as ‘Weasley’.
“You’ve been down that path before. Anything down there you can’t read in a book?”
 
“No, not really.”
“Well then!” grinned Malfoy. “I’m sold!” He touched the rope with his wand and it disappeared. “Let’s go!” He started walking down the path less taken, but no one followed him.
“Come on!” he beckoned when he was about twenty feet down the dark corridor.
“Let me through!” said Ak, pushing his way past Harry. “I’m going down that way! Wait  for  me,  Malfoy!” He  ran  down the  corridor  with  him,  disappearing  into  the  dark tunnel. Harry shrugged his shoulders and walked down it too, quickly followed by Ron.
“You know, we could get in trouble for this!” yelled Hermione down to them.
“Not if anyone sees  us,” said Harry back, following the barely visible outline of
Malfoy and Ak. He heard Hermione sigh and start walking along with them.
They marched  down the  hall,  with  the  lights  getting  dimmer  and dimmer  with every step. Finally, they were in complete darkness, so much that it didn’t matter if Harry closed his eyes or not, he could still see same.
“Lumos!” he yelled, hoping that the stick he was holding onto was his wand. The usual bright beam shot out of the tip, giving Harry a thin beam with which to find his way to move along. Harry saw Malfoy and Ak do the same, and heard Ron too. It was creepy to see three rays of light moving along the gloomy and pitch black hallway.
“Oh man!” Harry suddenly heard Malfoy yell. “You guys have got to see this!”
“What!?”	yelled	Harry,	quickening	his	pace.	“What	is	it?”
“Just come over here and I’ll show you!”
Harry ran ahead, trying to  not run into the owners of  the two beams in front of him. He quickly reached Malfoy and Ak.
“What? What did you find?” Harry asked, catching his breath.
“Look  at  this  cool  artifact!”  said  Malfoy,  shining  his  beam  on  some  sort  of golden object. But, the beam was not even close  to being big enough to show the entire thing. They needed more light.
“Malfoy,” said Harry, “do you know any spells that can give us more light?” Even through the darkness, Harry could sense that he grinned.
“Harry… what do you think?”
“Well, use it!”
“Alright… Solelium Lumos!” From the tip of his wand, a flood of light erupted out, as if the entire sun had just appeared right in front of them. The entire room was even brighter than the outside desert, and Harry had to intensify the darkness of his glasses just to bring his vision to normal brightness.
But, what was revealed to them was worth all of the brightness and any other pain that they had ever  experienced  in their  lives.  As high up as Harry could see,  there  was nothing but golden artifacts. It was a gigantic pile of golden objects, each encrusted with gems, rubies, emeralds, everything that shined. Harry felt his jaw hit the floor and then get wet in his puddle of drool.
“Oh… my… god….” gasped Ak and Ron together, eyeing the insanely huge pile. Before them was more money than in the entire world.
“So, Hermione,” said Malfoy, turning around. “Was it worth it to break the rules to see this treasure?…. Hermione? Hey, where is Granger?”
“What?” said Harry, quickly turning his attention away from the unimaginable pile
 
of wealth.
“She’s not here,” said Malfoy.
Harry looked behind him, and saw Ak, Ron and Malfoy, but there was no sign of
Hermione. She was nowhere to be seen. Hermione was gone.
 
Chapter 18- The Hero’s Tests

“HERMIONE!”  yelled  Harry  and  Ron  together,  quickly  followed  by  Ak  and Malfoy  who  tore  their  eyes  away from  the  pile  of  wealth.  Harry  ran  up and down the corridor, yelling her name, but he couldn’t find her.
“Where is she?” demanded Ron, looking frantically all over.
“HERMIONE!” yelled Harry at the top of his lungs one last time. But, once again, she did not show up. The only thing that answered his call was his echo.
“How could she have left?” asked Ak, touching the stones all over, checking for secret passages.
“She was right behind me the entire time,” said Ron, joining Ak.
“Malfoy, did you see her at all?” asked Harry, taking one final look down the hall. Malfoy didn’t answer him. “Malfoy, did you ?”
Harry turned around, and had to resist screaming in surprise. Where Malfoy was only  a  few  seconds  earlier,  there  was  now no  one.  Harry  could  hear  his  heart  beating frantically in his chest. Where did they go?
“Ron…” asked Harry impishly. “Malfoy’s gone now too…” There was no response.
Harry turned around, dreading what he was going to see. Sure enough, there was no Ron behind him, only Ak.
“Ak! Where’s Ron and Malfoy!” asked Harry worriedly, now almost on the verge of tears. Fear was overwhelming him to the point of absolute terror.
“I don’t know,” whimpered Ak, darting his eyes  up and down the hall. “Ron was right next to me a second ago, then he just… disappeared.”
“I don’t  like  this,  Ak,” said  Harry  quietly,  not  letting  him  leave  his  sight,  not wanting him to disappear as well. “How could they all just disappear?”
“Maybe this treasure is cursed or something,” suggested Ak, backing away slowly from the pile of gold that they had all sprinted towards only moments ago. But, that was back when they all were here.
“Alright, I have an idea,” said Ak, trying to keep his voice calm. “I’m going to go back to the main group and tell the teachers what happened. Maybe they can help.”
“No!” yelled Harry. “We’ll get expelled for taking the wrong path!”
“It’s better than being killed or trapped in this pyramid forever,” said Ak.
“I supposed you’re right… but hurry back!”
“I will!” said Ak, beginning to run down the dark corridor.
“Wait!” yelled Harry to him, reconsidering being alone. “Ak, wait!”
It was too late. Ak was alright well out of sight, far into the deep darkness on the other side of the hall.
Harry was all alone.
It’s very interesting, how when you’re alone, you pay much more attention to the small noises and movements all around you. The dripping of the water on the walls, from the  moist  stones  was  like  gongs  in  Harry’s  ears,  and the  occasional  movement  of  the golden objects made a massive shadow appear on the wall, making Harry draw out his wand and  coil  back  in  fear.  Worst  of  all,  it  seemed  as  though  the  light  that  Malfoy  had summoned was slowly going out.
 
“Wait a minute!” said Harry to himself. “The light is getting dimmer!” It was as if a cloud was passing over the sun, a very dark and thick cloud. What used to be brighter than the desert outside was now only as bright as a cave, and getting darker with every second.
Harry  slowly  backed  away  from  the  darkening  room,  but  found  himself  only entering the pitch black corridor from which he came. Only a few seconds later, Harry was engulfed by the  darkness. He was drowning in a pool  of  night, it  was devouring him all around.
Harry’s heart was beating so fat and hard he thought it would explode out of his chest. He could feel  its beats echo all the way up to his head, making the sweat in his hair and on his forehead throb, and drip down. Any second now, Harry expected some sort of hellish beat to come up from behind and tear him to pieces.
Just  then, Harry heard a noise  and closed  his  eyes,  preparing for  some  sort  of sharp and pointy impact. But, instead, Harry fell… into the floor! Some sort of trap door opened up below him and Harry fell right through it.
It was like some sort of horrible slide, still pitch black but hard and metallic all around,  twisting  and  turning  in  every  possible  direction.  Most  of  the  stones  weren’t smoothed out, and they tore  through Harry’s light shirt that he had on, giving him cuts and lacerations all over, adding a bit of blood color to the stones.
“OUCH!” yelled Harry. The slide part of  the trip had ended and he landed, head first, onto another stony ground. Harry rubbed his head and saw that he was now one some sort of stone bridge, crossing over a massive pit that filled up the entire floor of the small room, a pit that appeared to have no bottom.
“Harry!” came a familiar  voice. He looked on the other  side  of  the bridge, and right there, standing was Hermione, Malfoy, Ron and Ak!
“Hey!” Harry yelled to them, his spirits soaring upon seeing them as he stood up.
“How did you guys get over there?”
“Run across!” Hermione yelled.
“What? No, not now,” yelled Harry back. He looked behind him for a way out, but the slide that he had come down had mysteriously vanished. “How do we get out of here?”
“Run across the bridge!” yelled Malfoy, cupping his hands over his mouth.
“Why don’t you come over here?”
“Trust us!” yelled Ron. “Just run over as fast as you can!”
“Nah, I’m kind of tired,” said Harry, the fear that he had just finished experiencing took a toll on his body. “Think I’ll just stroll across.”
Harry took a step forward.
“No Harry!” yelled Ak. “Run-”
Suddenly, where there was once just a bridge, there was now a blade filled torture machine.  The  bottomless  pit  all  around  the  bridge  erupted  into  flames,  and above  the bridge  there  were  swinging pendulums,  but  these  were  not  ball  pendulums,  these  were gigantic, swinging knives and blades, the size of a guillotine’s. There were at least ten of them, each a few feet away from the other, wavering at random intervals.
“Woah!” yelled Harry, stopping dead in his tracks, inches away from being sliced in half by the first blade. “You didn’t tell me these things were going to come up!”
“If you had just run across like we told you to,” said Malfoy, “then you would be with us. Now, they are all not swinging in a pattern anymore.”
 
“So what can I do?” gasped Harry, feeling the wind of the blade whoosh by him, practically blowing him over.
“I guess you just got to go by each separately,” shrugged Hermione. “Carefully.”
“What!?” wheezed Harry. “There has to be an easier way to do this!”
“I don’t think there is…” sighed Malfoy. “You’ve just got to run.”
“Why run,” grinned Harry, getting an idea, “when you can fly?” He transformed his  shoulders  into  his  magnificent  Gryffin  wings  and jumped  off  of  the  Stone  bridge, quickly flew past the swinging blades, not even coming within feet of one. He did a little somersault in the air and landed right next to his other four group members.
“Having wings comes  in handy,” said Harry, transforming his shoulders  back to normal. “Saves you from having to get sliced in half…. By the way, what is this place?”
“This is where we all fell down to,” said Hermione, throwing her hands into the air. Now, the swinging blades and fire was gone, only the innocent looking regular Stone bridge was left. “A trap door opened up under each of us, quickly bringing us down here.”
“So, what is… here?”
“This is the first test that the heroes wanting to test their skills take,” continued Hermione. “According to  that Bob the ghost  guy, this  is  the speed test.  There are three more, a courage, intelligence, and strength one.”
“So, how do we get to  the next test?” asked Harry, looking at where they were, which was completely door-less.
“That’s what we want to  know,” said  Malfoy,  looking around. Harry  turned  his head up, to  see  if  there  was any way out. Then saw there, right above their  heads, was a rather small hole in the wall, but large enough for someone to fit through.
“Up there!” said Harry, pointing to  his find. “Maybe we have to  go through that
 
hole.”






 


“Sounds like the best idea so far,” said Ak.
“But how do we get up there?” asked Hermione.
“Ahem,” coughed Harry, sprouting his wings again. “I can fly you all up. Grab on.” Harry put out his arms and Hermione grabbed hold of them. Ron grabbed hold of
 
her waist, Ak grabbed hold of him, and Malfoy grabbed hold of him. This wasn’t going to be a light load.
“One… two… three… go!” said Harry, heaving them all up. He got barely a foot off of the ground when it became almost unbearable, it was like trying to pull a full grown oak tree out of the ground. His human form simply would not do .
Harry morphed into the rest  of  his Gryffin form, and immediately felt  renewed strength flow through him. What used to be heavier than an elephant was now lighter than a feather. He easily lifted the four of  them up to  the hole  in the ceiling, and got the first glimpse of the next test.
“What’s it like, Harry?” asked Hermione, Ron and Malfoy telepathically together.
“You don’t want to know,” gasped Harry. He lifted them up quickly now, so they could see what lay before them as well. Once they were all up, he let them go and wonder how in the world they were going to get passed this task.
Before them lay an ocean of lava and fire. It stretched out to the sides as far as the eye could see, though it was relatively narrow, someone could practically jump right over it, if  they could jump about thirty feet.  Harry’s first  thought was just to  fly over it
 
again, but floating above the flowing lava was a massive fire  that erupted every now and then,  getting  larger  and  hotter  every  time.  If  Harry  flew  over  that  thing,  he’d  quickly become roast gryffin.
“How are we supposed to cross this?” asked Harry, returning to his normal form.
“Let me try something,” said Malfoy, licking his lips and pulling up his sleeves. He aimed his wand at the molten lava. “Glacius!”
A massive, white  beam burst  out  from  Malfoy’s  wand, hitting the  lava. But,  as powerful  as the  spell  was, it  had barely any effect.  Only the  exact  spot  that Malfoy  hit changed to ice, and it stayed like that for only a second before it melted.
“Well, that’s the best freezing spell I know,” sighed Malfoy, stepping back.
“So… what do  we do?” asked Ak, turning to  them. His  doing that hurt  Harry’s sprits. If Malfoy couldn’t do anything and Ak couldn’t do anything, what chance did they have?
“Well,” said Hermione, “we can’t go over it, we definitely can’t go around it, and we can’t go under it…”
“So we’ve got to go through it,” said Ron seriously, eyeing the river of fire as if it were some sort of opponent.
“What?” asked Harry. “What are you talking about?”
“We’ve got to swim across it,” he said backing up slowly, looking like he wanted a running start.
“What? Ron, no!” gasped Hermione, running over to  try and stop him. But, she was  too  late.  Ron  had  already  sprinted  off,  all  the  way to  the  edge  of  the  stone  that separated the surface from the lava. When he reached that point, he gave no hesitation. He only jumped.
“RON!” yelled the four of them together as he jumped right into the pool of lava. His  arms  waving  wildly,  and  his  mouth  screaming,  Ron  fell  into  the  sea  of  fire  and plummeted all the way to the bottom, going under it and disappearing from sight.
“RON! NO!” yelled  Harry, going to  the  edge  of  the  stone  and trying to  see  if there  was  any  sign  of  his  best  friend.  He  looked  all  around,  but  to  no  avail.  He  had disappeared into the sea of liquid heat. Harry bowed his head down.
“I’m okay!” came a voice suddenly.
“What…?” asked Harry, looking up.
“It’s me, Ron! I’m okay!”
Harry looked into the lava… the voice was coming from inside it!
“How  can  you  possibly  be  okay!?”  demanded  Malfoy.  “Your  skin  should  be melting off of your bones! How can you possibly be okay!?”
“The lava and fire are not real,” said Ron, sounding perfectly okay. “Just jump on in, you’ll be fine.”
The four of them looked at each other, wondering whether or not to believe him. Was it really Ron? Was he really alright? Was it some sort of trick?
“I get it now!” said Hermione suddenly. “This is the test of courage! This one sees if   you  are  brave  enough  to   make  the  ultimate  sacrifice   when  there   are  no  other possibilities, if you would be willing to give up your life in battle.”
“Couldn’t they  just  have somebody  ask  us  is  we were  brave, instead  of  having this?” asked Ak, not looking as though he was in any hurry to try his luck.
 
“I can’t believe Ron was the bravest of us all to jump in,” said Malfoy.
“Some call it bravery… others insanity,” commented Hermione, walking up to the edge of the Stone and trying to get up the courage to dip the tip of her toe in.
“Well, if Ron here could do it, than any of us can,” said Malfoy, rubbing his hands together and backing up a bit. “Here goes nothing!” He closed his eyes and ran as fast as he could toward the sea of  flames. Once he reached the edge of  the bricks he leapt in, not daring to open his eyes. Just like Ron, he fell through the lava, making a small splash, and disappearing inside of it.
“Malfoy!” yelled Harry, crouching over the dark red sea. “Did you make it?”
“Sure  did!”  he  called  back,  sounding  perfectly  potty.  “Come  on  in,  the  lava’s
 
fine!”

 


“Well, that’s good enough for me,” said Ak. “See you on the other side you two!”
 
Not  even  taking  a  running  start,  Ak just  walked  up  to  the  edge,  closed  his  eyes,  took another step out and fell right through, without even making a splash.
“Come on Harry,” whimpered Hermione. “Let’s do it together.”
“Fine,  if  it  will  make  you  feel  any better,”  said  Harry,  trying  to  sound  brave, though  he  felt  that  doing  it  with  someone  else  made  him  feel  better  than doing  it  by himself. They walked to the edge together and held hands.
“On the count of three,” said Hermione, swallowing hard and looking down at her fiery   fate.  Even  though  both  of   them  knew  it   wasn‘t  real,  it   was  still   extremely intimidating. “One… two… three… go!”
Together, they jumped up and into the flaming ocean. Harry had to practically pull Hermione off  the edge before  she finally fell  in with him. Once Harry touched the lava and fire, he cringed and closed his eyes, his brain expecting some sort  of  pain to come. But, to his surprise, he felt nothing. Not even so much as a tingle. It was as if he was just falling through air.
It wasn’t even that long of  all fall. Harry and Hermione  were  barely falling for half a second before their feet  touched the ground. They ended up in a very small and dark room that had a single door with a dim light coming through.
“Hey!” exclaimed Ron somewhat sarcastically when Hermione and Harry landed down there with them. “Hermione! I thought you and I were together!”
“Oh Ron, Harry just needed someone to jump on in with him,” smiled Hermione.
“Aww…” said Malfoy  cutely.  “Did widdle  Harry need  someone  to  jump in  the lava with him?”
“Shut up Malfoy,” said Harry, pushing him away.
“Anyways…” said Ak, breaking them up. “Back to the tasks at hand.”
“I assume we go through that door,” said Harry, pointing to the only way out.
“Thanks for that stunning report Captain Obvious,” grinned Malfoy.
The five of them marched over to the door, having no clue what to expect next. After  a  bridge  of  swinging  blades  and then  an  ocean  of  fire  and lava, what  could  you expect? They entered the room, the door closed automatically behind them, and they were shocked by what was inside.
There  was nothing in the  room  except  for  one,  massive, golden throne.  Seated upon it was a very old and decrepit looking monster. But, through its long and dangly gray hair, wrinkles and colorless flesh, Harry could tell what it was: a Sphinx.
 
“Greetings… heroes,” it spoke, very slowly, sounding like a bucket full of dust. “I congratulate… you five… on… getting this… far. You are… halfway done… with your… tests.”
“Many thanks,” said Harry, who had experience in dealing with Sphinxes before.
“But, we’re  kind of  in a hurry to  get  out  of  here.  You see,  we need to  get  back to  our group. So, if you could just give us the riddle-”
“Ahh,”  coughed  the  Sphinx.  “A  bunch  of…  quick  minded…  heroes  are  you. Well… we’ll see… just how… quick minded… you really… are.”
“Alright!” said Hermione, who looked as through she wanted a crack at the riddle.
“Tell us your conundrum.”
“Very…well. But… I must… warn you… if you… guess wrong… than all five…
of you… shall perish.”
“Oh yeah?” said Malfoy. “How’s an old bird like you going to kill us? I bet we can take you down.”
To this, the Sphinx gave a coughing laugh.
“Oh…” he groaned. “I will… not be… the one… to kill you. Dede’ft will.”
“Who’s Dede’ft?” demanded Harry.
“I am!” hissed a massive snake that suddenly appeared from behind the Sphinx’s throne. Even though it was mostly all coiled up, it was still taller than the entire room and as thick as a tree trunk. It had two giant red eyes, and black mandibles on either side of its mouth that clicked and hissed for it.
“What did it say?” Hermione asked Harry.
“It  said  the  he’s  Dede’ft,”  whimpered  Harry.  Dede’ft  was  even  bigger  than  a
Basilisk, and those were bad enough already.
“Wait a minute here!” said Ron suddenly. “How come you’re so old, Mr. Sphinx, but Dede’ft here looks like he’s still in his youth of snake hood?”
“Well…” coughed  the  Sphinx. “You see…  while  I am… the  original…  Riddle Keeper…  Dede’ft…  is  not…  the  original…  snake  guardian.  Every  year…  the  snake guardian explodes…  bringing forth… a hundred new… baby snakes. The strongest  of… the hundred or so… eats the rest… and continues the cycle.”
“So it ate all of its brothers and sisters?” gulped Harry, not really looking at the massive snake. It was far too frightening of a sight.
“Thank you  for  telling  them,  Sphinx,” hissed  Dede’ft.  “But, as  much  as  I liked snake meat, that’s not to say I wouldn’t appreciate a little change to human flesh.”
“Well, he may be big, but I bet one good spell  could still  take him down,” said Malfoy, not sounding as brave as his words as snake glared at him and spat some venom out.
“Very… well then,” continued the Sphinx. “If you… think you… are so… bold… here is… your riddle: It smells not with its nose, but with its fork. While it has no digits, it can still do work. Once devoured, though, that will be the last thing you shall think, as you are slowly eaten, he shall not even blink. What creature is this?”
Right after it stopped speaking, the Sphinx collapsed in its chair from talking so fast. It took in long and deep loud breaths, exhausted.
“What kind of question is that?” demanded Ron.
“That’s the craziest one I’ve ever heard,” said Malfoy.
 
“Do you… want to… give up?” grinned the Sphinx weakly.
“No way!” yelled Ak, looking as though he was thinking hard.
“What kind of thing smells  with a fork?” asked Hermione to herself, looking in almost deeper thought than Ak.
“Well, don’t piano tuners smell their tuning forks after they hit a piano string?”
asked Ron. “Maybe the creature is a piano tuner!”
“Ron,”  sighed  Harry.  “If  you  don’t  have  anything  intelligent  to  say,  don’t  say anything at all.”
“So the monster has no digits, eh?” asked Malfoy.
“Yes… that is… correct.”
“So, what?” said  Ron  again. “Digits  are  numbers,  right?  Maybe  the  creature  is stupid and can’t think numbers. Maybe it’s a really stupid creature!”
“No Ron,” said Malfoy. “The answer is not you.”
“Good one,” laughed Harry, nudging Malfoy in the side.
“Thanks.”
Harry returned to thinking. What kind of monster smelled with a fork? Well, he certainly couldn’t think of  anything that did. Harry moved onto  the  next clue:  it  has no digits.  What  did  that  mean?  Harry  decided  to  skip  over  that  one  as  well,  to  the  more unpleasant clue; the one about being eaten.
“So this creature must take a while to devour something, since the clue said you will be slowly eaten,” said Harry out loud to himself.
“But  there  are  dozens  of  creatures  that  take  long  time  to  digest  food,”  said
Hermione. “It’s way too vague to start thinking there.”
“Ha ha,” laughed Dede’ft suddenly, curling its long body around the throne. “The fools, they will never figure out the answer.”
What was he talking about? Didn’t he know that Harry could understand him?
Just then it hit Harry. He hadn’t spoken directly to Dede’ft yet, so he didn’t know that he was a Parseltongue! He had to take advantage of this situation.
“Oh  Ron!”  complained  Harry  loudly  and  sarcastically,  so  that  Dede’ft  could overhear them, formulating a plan in his head. “It’s too bad we can’t figure out this really hard  riddle!”  Ron  gave  him  a  funny  look,  Harry  signaled  to  him  to  just  play  along. Confused, he merely nodded his head.
“It’s so hard,” said Harry again, loudly enough so that Dede’ft could hear. “It’s too bad we don’t have the mind of  a snake, like  Dede’ft over there,  then I’m sure  we could figure it out!”
The gigantic snake turned it’s head quickly towards Harry, glaring at him.
“Well,” he hissed, “at least one of them has a brain. Of course  if those pathetic humans had my brain they would have figured out the riddle by now. To a snake, these sort of things are easy.”
“Yep,” continued Harry, “snakes are so smart! I bet that Dede’ft over there already knows the answer!”
To this, the snakes gave a chuckle.
“Well of course I know the answer! Sphinx told me it a long time ago, when I was still a child. I, of course, love the answer, it’s a small piece of respect for my kind.”
Harry was getting closer now, if only he could get a bit more out of Dede’ft then
 
he would unknowingly blurt out the solution. He decided to just cut to the chase.
“It’s too  bad Dede’ft  couldn’t just  tell  you the  answer,” said Harry for  the  last time, now having the four others in his group stare at him.
“Oh, the silly child,” hissed Dede’ft, shaking his head. “Even if  I could tell  him that the  answer to  the  riddle  was snake, I wouldn’t. I am very hungry; it’s  been so  long since I’ve eaten anything bigger than a rat.”
That was far more than Harry needed to know. Dede’ft had told them the answer! It was snake!
“Of course,” said Harry out loud. “A snake doesn’t have a nose, it smells with its forked tongue! And they don’t have digits… also known as fingers! Digits is another name for fingers! Of course snakes don’t have fingers, they don’t even have arms or legs! And the last clue… oh yeah! Snakes eat their food whole, and they stay in their digestive tracks for  a while, and of  course  they wouldn’t even blink! Snakes don’t have eyelids  to  blink with!”
Hermione,  Ron,  Malfoy  and Ak were  all  staring  at  Harry,  wide-eyed  and with gaping mouths. Hermione ran up to Harry and hugged him.
“You’re a genius!” she yelled.
“What… happened?” asked the Sphinx. “I fell… asleep.”
“I figured out your riddle!” yelled Harry, turning to face the decrepit creature and smirking on the inside.
“Well then… what is… your… answer?” demanded the Sphinx.
“The answer is… snake!” yelled Harry.
As soon as the word left his mouth, the Sphinx let out an ear-piercing screech. It jumped up onto its hind-legs and waved its arms in the air, only increasing its volume and frequency. Everyone covered their  ears,  but it  didn’t help. Relief  only arrived when the Sphinx finally stopped screaming and collapsed onto its throne.
“You are…” gasped the Sphinx, “truly worthy… of the… treasure. Or… at least…
whatever is… left of… it. Dede’ft! Move… the throne… over… and let… them pass.” Dede’ft, looking extremely angry that he hadn’t gotten to eat even one of them,
bowed his head down and pushed the golden throne  over to  the wall, revealing a hidden passageway underneath.
“You may… go down… to your… next task,” croaked the Sphinx, looking even older now than it did before. “And… good luck… to you all.”
“Thank you,”  bowed  Harry.  Walking  past  the  infuriated  snake  and  toward  the staircase that looked even older and more feeble than the Sphinx. The small steps had lost all of their color  and were now covered in several inches of  dust. Covering the dust and strung  across  the  hallways  leading  down was an uncountable  number  of  cobwebs,  with spiders that looked like they would gladly take a bite of one of the five.
Bravely, Harry put his foot on the first step and began the treacherous walk down. With each step, it got darker, and no two stairs were the same height. Several times, Harry fell  over, ending up with a mouthful of  spider webs. By the time they reached the room that horrible staircase led to, Harry deeply regretted going out in front.
“So what task is this one going to be?” asked Harry, spitting out a spider.
“Well,  let’s  see  here,”  said  Hermione.  “We already did the  speed  and courage tests,  and I think the last one was the intelligence  test,  so  this  one must be the strength
 
test; the final one.”
“Good,” said Ak. “Maybe after this one, we can get out of here.”
“I hope all we have to do for this test is lift a barbell or something,” sighed Ron. Harry grinned and looked around. Just like the other  rooms, except fro  the one
with the infinitely long fire  river, this one was quite small, about as big as the common room with stone walls, ceiling and floor. But, the thing that set this one apart was the fact that there was a floating scale in the middle of the room.
But, this  wasn’t just  any scale.  It was one  of  the  old  fashioned  ones,  a golden balancing  scale.  Also,  this  one  already  had  two  balanced  objects  on  it:  on  the  left,  a feather, on the right, a beating human heart.
“How horrible,” said Ak, covering his mouth.
“No  it  isn’t,”  said  Hermione,  walking up  to  it.  “Don’t  you  know any Egyptian
Mythology? This is the scale used in the Weighing of the Heart Ceremony.”
“The what?” asked Malfoy.
“The  Weighing  of  the  Heart  Ceremony,”  said  Hermione,  sounding  annoyed.
“Whenever an Egyptian died, especially a pharaoh, they would be brought to some sort of spiritual judgment room. There, their  heart would be weighed against a feather. If it was heavier, than they were supposedly evil, and they had no afterlife.  But, if  it  was lighter, then they could enter Heaven.”
“Sounds like  fun,” said  Harry,  walking up to  the  scale  next  to  Hermione.  “But what does that have to do with this test?”
“I dunno,” said Ron, walking up next to him. “Maybe we have to eat the heart or something.” He put out his arm, grabbed hold of the heart, and brought it up to his mouth, pretending to eat it.
Then, just as the heart left the scale, the door that they used to get in vanished and the room began shaking furiously, knocking the five of  them to  the floor. Ron impishly placed the heart back on the scale, as if trying to stop whatever was happening.
“Welcome  heroes,” boomed a voice  that seemed to  be coming from all around them,  “to  the  final  challenge;  the  test  of  your  strength.  For  this,  you  must  defeat  me, Amemait, the Devourer!”
“Who’s  Amemait?”  Harry  asked  Hermione,  bouncing  all  over  the  room  like popcorn.
“Remember how I said if your heart was heavier than the feather, than you would have no afterlife?”
“Yeah.”
“Well, you would have no afterlife because Amemait would swoop down and eat
 
you.”

 


“Great…” sighed Harry. Suddenly, the room stopped shaking and the golden scale
 
disappeared. Quickly taking its  place  was one  of  the  most  horrible  creatures  Harry had ever seen.
The beast had the head of a crocodile. It’s teeth looked sharper than nails, though they were not as piercing as its human eyes. Going down to its torso, it had lion skin and arms, furry and fuzzy all over. For it’s waist and below, though, it had hippopotamus-like features, especially the tail. All over, however, it had a very feminine appearance, as if it were trying to seduce and kill them at the same time.
 
“I shall fight each of  you individually,” said Amemait, in a rather silky voice. It was rather  funny, seeing a crocodile  speak with a voice  like  that. “If all five of  you are defeated by me, than you shall all perish. You, the girl… you shall be first.”
“Me?” gasped Hermione, pointing to herself.
“Yes you!” yelled Amemait, suddenly not sounding so suave.
“Good luck, Hermione,” said Harry, backing up with the rest of the others against
 
the wall.



 


“Yeah, you’ll need it,” added Malfoy.
Hermione  and the  Amemait  faced  each  other,  each  on  an opposite  side  of  the
 
room.  Hermione  brandished her  wand, looking fierce,  though not  so  much as  Amemait was. There they both stood for a few moments, until Hermione made the first move.
“Stupefy!” she yelled. The red beam shot out of her wand, and right for Amemait. But,  just  at  the  last  second,  Amemait  shoved  out  her  massive  hippopotamus  blubber, making it take up most of her front. The spell hit the rubbery skin and bounced right off, disappearing into the wall.
“Now it’s my turn!” yelled Amemait. Not giving any more warning, she ran at full sprint, which was especially fast considering her size, straight for  Hermione. She didn’t have any time to react; Amemait hit her, and pressed her much smaller body up against the wall. Harry could just picture every bone in her body being broken.
“HERMIONE!” yelled Harry, Ron, Malfoy and Ak together.
After  literally  rubbing  her  into  the  wall  a  bit  more,  and  creating  a  few  very unpleasant  crunching  sounds,  Amemait  backed  off  and  Hermione  fell  to  the  floor, defeated and unconscious, no more than a fleshy sack of broken bones.
“Who’s next!?” she demanded, glaring at the four of them.
“I am!” yelled Ron, jumping up.
“No you’re not!” yelled Malfoy, standing up next to him.
“What  are  you  talking  about?  I’m  next!”  said  Ron  sternly.  “I  have  to  defend
Hermione’s honor!”
“This isn’t  about  honor,”  spat  Malfoy.  “This is  about  life  and death.  Now, you could go in there and wave your wand around and waste some more time. Time Hermione may not have. Or, you could let me go in there, I could beat that abomination, we can get out of here, and then get her to a hospital.”
“Fine,” hissed Ron, sitting back down.
“You! The  yellow  haired  one!”  yelled  Amemait,  pointing  at  Malfoy.  “Come!  I
hunger for battle!”
“Not once  I’m through with you,” spat Malfoy, walking to  where Hermione had stood. He pushed up his sleeved and took out his wand, waiting for her to make the first move. “You’re not going to have a stomach to hunger with anymore.”
Malfoy  didn’t have to  wait  very  long  for  the  battle  to  begin.  A moment  later, Amemait came rushing at Malfoy, utilizing the same strategy she had used before. But this time was different. This time Malfoy was ready.
“Kooverta Maximus!” he yelled, creating a massive and invisible shield in front of himself. Amemait ran right into that instead, hurting herself far more than Malfoy.
“That was a mean trick!” she yelled, rubbing her head.
“Sometimes you’ve got to fight ugly to beat ugly people,” laughed Malfoy.
 
“So, you think I’m ugly do you?” demanded Amemait. “Well, let me show you that looks aren’t everything!”
With that, Amemait just disappeared into thin air.
“What?  Where’d  she   go?”  asked  Malfoy,  looking  around  the   small   room.
“Something that big can’t disappear.”
“MALFOY!” yelled  Harry, suddenly seeing her  pop back into  the  visible  world again. “Behind you!”
But, it  was too  late.  Amemait didn’t waste  any time  and quickly put her  mouth over Malfoy’s wand arm, biting it right off with a loud crunching sound. The arm fell to the floor  in a bloody mess, with Malfoy screaming and yelling, now laying on his stomach, crawling towards his hand. He made a grab for his wand with his other hand, but Amemait kicked the arm across the room, far out of his reach. She put one hippo leg on his back, preventing him from going anywhere.
“Do you give up or do you want me to kill you?” asked Amemait, smiling.
“I…” stuttered Malfoy, looking lost. He had never admitted defeat before, and the fact that he almost had to was painful. “I… well… I give up.”
“Excellent  choice,”  said  Amemait,  taking  her  foot  off  of  his  back.  Malfoy crawled over to the wall that Hermione was against and tried to see if he could help her, even if he didn’t have his wand anymore.
“Who shall be by next victim?” asked Amemait, crossing her sharp clawed hands.
“You and me,” said Ron seriously, stepping forward. “Let’s go.”
“Alright then fire-head,” snapped Amemait, walking back to her corner. “Let’s see if you’re any better than your friends were.”
Harry  sighed  and  put  his  head  into  his  hands.  Ron  would  be  little  more  than walking meat for Amemait. If Hermione and Malfoy couldn’t beat her, what chance did he stand? Even though Ron must have known this, he was looking confident, wand out and a grin on his face. He had proved back at the lava test that he was brave, stupid yes, but still very brave as well.
“YEEARRGG!” belched Amemait, breaking into  a full run once  again, only this him, turning invisible as well. How could Ron possible avoid the invisible tank?
But, Ron did have a plan. He quickly transformed into  his chameleon form  and became just as invisible as Amemait was. He must have moved out of the way, because a second later, there was a massive colliding sound, and several large cracks appeared in the wall that Ron had been near moments ago.
“Where are you!?” demanded Amemait, turning visible again. “Show yourself  or else I will- AARRGG!”
Ron suddenly showed himself, but not in a way that Amemait would have liked it. He appeared right on top of her crocodile head and was gnawing on her right eye.
“Way to go Ron!” cheered Harry, amazed that his friend was not unconscious by now. But, that happiness did not last. As soon as Amemait got herself back together, she reached one of her lion hands up to where Ron was and picked him off of her head quite easily.
“Any last words?” asked Amemait slyly as she placed Ron on the ground and held him there. She lifted one massive foot in the air right above him and then brought it down quickly, crushing Ron’s tiny chameleon body like it was a bug.
 
“RON! NO!” yelled Harry. Amemait removed her foot  from Ron and revealed a small  green  puddle  that  barely  resembled  a chameleon.  It  suddenly began vibrating and glowing, and Ron’s human formed appeared. Even though you were not supposed to carry over injuries when you transformed, what he had just suffered was evidently too much fro the magic to fix; he still did not look much better than he did in his chameleon form. He had blood all over him, not to  mention hundreds of  bruises  and internal bleeding spots. Harry had to beat Amemait now, three of his friends needed his help.
“You! The one  with the  glasses!” roared  Amemait, pointing a claw at Harry. “I
wish to fight you next.”
“Be careful what you wish for,” mocked Harry, stepping out, “it might just come
 
true.”

 


“Oh,” said Amemait, grinning, “if my wish comes true, you will find yourself in a
 
world of pain like none you have ever experienced.”
“You don’t know what I’ve experienced,” grimaced Harry, taking out his wand and remembering  the  times  that  the  Cruciatus  Curse  had  been  put  on  him.  He  glared  at Amemait, trying to picture his victory.
Just as Harry imagined how she would look with her crocodile head severed off, Amemait began the battle and suddenly rushed straight at him, in the same manner that she had with the past three. But, Harry was ready.
“Parium Terrus!” he yelled, trying to sound confident. A long, thin and hard string shout of the tip of his wand, and flew through the air, right at Amemait’s big hippo legs. It magically wrapped itself around them, binding her feet together and making her fall flat on the ground.
“Saber!” Harry yelled, getting the sword ready to plunge right through Amemait’s body, finishing her  once  and for  all.  The light-gray sword  was fully  extended  now and Harry rushed straight at her, feeling the adrenaline and energy burst that only the thrill that that of an oncoming victory could bring.
He raised the sword up above her massive body and was getting ready to plunge it straight through when suddenly she disappeared into thin air, just like before. Instead of going through the soft hide of a lion, the sword’s tip hit the ground with a clang.
“Behind you!” Amemait abruptly yelled, just as Harry was bringing his sword back to the normal position. Harry quickly turned around, to try and defend against whatever she may do, but all he saw was a clawed paw flying straight at his face.
“AARRGG!” groaned  Harry,  covering  the  bloody  gashes  Amemait’s  claws  had driven into  his face.  They were  sharper  than swords  and longer  than knives. One of  the claws had pierced a hole in Harry’s cheek, and through the pain of the severed nerves and flowing blood he could feel the dry air blowing in and out through it.
“I can beat you even with both my feet  tied!” thundered Amemait, grinning and striking Harry again on the other side of his face. This time, the pain was far too intense and Harry dropped his wand on the floor. His face was a bloody mess now, little more than ground beef.
“Oh, look what I’ve got!” said Amemait mockingly as she picked up Harry’s wand. She tapped the binds around her feet  with it and the string disappeared, freeing her legs. Using  them,  she  walked  over  to  Harry,  who  was  know  kneeling  on  the  ground,  blood pouring through his fingers that he was using to cover his face. She grabbed his hair and
 
lifted his head up high. She put a single extended claw from her other hand up to the front of his neck, ready to slit Harry’s throat.
“I offer you the same choice as your other friend,” said Amemait, gently rubbing the skin of Harry’s neck with her claw, not piercing it, but coming close. “Do you wish for me to kill you now or later?”
“Neither,” spat Harry through his cut up face. Along with whatever usually comes out with your mouth when you spit, there was quite a bit of blood that seeped in from his forehead  through  his  cheek  holes,  along  with  a  few  chunky pieces  of  flesh  that  Harry could only assume did not belong there.
Harry, having though it was impossible to do it any faster than he had previously done  it  before,  performed  the  fastest  human to  gryffin  transformation  that he  had ever done in his life. Barely a millionth of a second passed before where once a bloody Harry stood, there was now a fully-grown, perfectly healthy looking gryffin, though invisible.
Using the gryffin’s natural strength, Harry easily pushed Amemait over and onto the ground, like his tripping spell did before. This took her by surprise and evidently hurt her considerably as well.
“You are no ordinary wizard, boy,” she said, not looking as sure of herself as she did before. “But, even a non-ordinary wizard is no match for a god!”
With  that,  she  quickly  disappeared  again  and  reappeared  right  behind  Harry, hitting him on the back with her huge feet, driving him a few inches into the stony ground. It was as if a boulder had just fallen on his back; the pain was intense. So much, that Harry was forced to return to his not much better human form.
“Last  chance,  boy,” groaned  Amemait,  once  again grabbing Harry’s  head.  “Die now or later?”
Harry’s mind was racing. He had no more energy left to transform, and Amemait had his wand. He didn’t know how to perform any other magic, besides morphing, without a wand, so there was nothing he could do.
“I… give up,” heaved Harry, still breathing hard. Amemait threw his head onto the ground quite powerfully.
“Good  choice,”  grinned  Amemait.  “Last  and  probably  least…  you,  the  pale skinned one with the black jacket. It’s your turn to face me.”
“It’s all up to  you, Ak,” said Harry quietly, using what little  energy he  had left after crawling over to Hermione, Ron and Malfoy. If Ak lost, then they would all be dead. He had to win… he had to.
“Don’t worry, Harry,” said Ak, removing his jacket and glaring at Amemait with hate all over his face. “I’ve faced worse than this.”
“Hah!” laughed Amemait, getting ready to run straight for Ak. “Let’s see if you’re all that you say you are, boy.”
“I’d like to see the same about you,” grinned Ak, getting into his fighting position which was very similar to Tci’s. It must be a Durmstrang thing….
“GRAAG!” roared Amemait as she hurled herself at Ak so loudly and fiercely that it scared Harry. But, Ak was not affected. He remained calm and cool and raised his wand, aiming right at the beast.
“Amemait Deletrius  Tout!” yelled Ak even more  powerfully than Amemait did. His voice echoed throughout the entire room, shaking the walls and making some bricks
 
fall from the ceiling. Amemait stopped dead in her tracks, for surprise at what was going on.
“What spell is that!?” she demanded, looking genuinely frightened. But, Ak didn’t answer; for  a  second  later,  it  began to  take  effect.  All  over,  Amemait  glowed a  bright white, getting brighter  every second, until it  began turning colors  that Harry didn’t even know existed. Brighter still she grew, belching and screaming as if in intense pain. Finally, she reached the brightness peak: beams shot out all over her, filling the entire room with the  same  level  of  brilliance.  Harry closed  his  eyes,  but it  didn’t help. The light was so intense that it shone through his eyelids.
Then, suddenly, as quickly as it had taken effect,  the spell  wore off, and all the light disappeared, taking with it  Amemait. Harry blinked his  eyes  a few times,  to  make sure that the darker light wasn’t just playing tricks on him, but it was true. Amemait was nowhere to be seen in the room.
“Well,” sighed Ak, twirling his  wand and sounding as  if  he  thought he  just  did nothing spectacular. “That was fun.”
“Ak?” asked Harry, in awe of what just happened. Ak beat Amemait with just one spell! “What spell did you use on her?”
“It’s a very powerful one,” he said, rocking back and forth on his feet. “It erases a single  object  from  the  universe.  Since  it  would have been  near  impossible  to  beat  that thing using contemporary methods,  since  she  kept on  teleporting all  around, it  was my only choice.”
Harry started at Ak, seeing him in a new light. How powerful was he, really? What other spells did he know? What else was he keeping from them?
“Ak….” began Harry, his mind buzzing. “What exactly-”
“No time for more questions,” he said, not looking at Harry and walking over to
Hermione. “We’ve got to heal you guys first.”
“Oh… right!” said Harry, remembering that his friends were hurt and he wasn’t in much better condition
“Ennervate!” said Ak softly, pointing his wand at Hermione. She instantly opened her eyes and sat up.
“What…?” she sighed. “Did we beat her?”
“Yes,” said Harry, patching up his face. It wasn’t as good a job as Madam Pomfrey would have done, but it was good for now. “Amemait is no more.”
“Literally,”  added Ak, ennervating Ron  and healing  Malfoy.  Harry  just  noticed that, along with himself, Malfoy had been staring at Ak the entire time.
“Ak…” he  said  slowly, standing up after  being healed.  “I don’t even know that curse, and I know almost every Dark Spell there is.”
“Exactly,” said Ak, brushing himself off and putting his jacket back on. “You know ALMOST every Dark Spell.  At Durmstrang, we have access  to  thousands  of  Dark Arts books, but the really good ones  are restricted, some  even to  teachers. That spell  was in one of those books… so really, I’m not even supposed to know it.”
“Oh,” was all that Malfoy could mutter, still looking as though he were amazed.
“Well, I know it’s great that you beat Amemait,” said Ron, standing up. “But, we have a new problem now. How do we get out of here?”
“Oh, that’s easy,” said Harry lazily. “All we have to do is… is-”
 
Harry looked around and discovered that getting out would be no easy feat. The door that had entered through had disappeared, and there didn’t seem to be a sign of any other exits or entrances anywhere else.
Then, as if  by command, the  golden scale  that had been there  when the  five of them first entered the room reappeared, in the same exact place that it was before.
“Congratulations on beating the guardian,” came a soothing voice from all around them once again. “You are one of the few to have ever done that, beaten Amemait that is. Most who pass this test choose the feather version instead.”
“Yeah, that’s great,” said Harry, interrupting. “But, how do we get out of here?”
“Push the feather down,” came the voice. Harry looked at the scale and saw on the left side the feather.
“All I have to do is push the feather down?” asked Harry, astonished.
“Yes,” said the voice.
“Okay!”  said  Harry  happily.  He  skipped  over  to  the  scale,  rubbed  his  hand together,  and pushed down on  the  side  of  the  scale  that had the  feather  on  it.  But, not matter how hard he pushed, the scale would not go down. He put all of his energy into it, but it was far from enough.
“Well  then,” gasped  Harry,  wiping the  sweat  off  of  his  forehead.  “I guess  this calls for a little muscle enhancement!” He took his wand out, muttered the engorgement charm, and tapped his arms. Almost instantly, his biceps grew twenty times their regular size, increasing his strength by even more.
“Nice guns!” commented Malfoy, grinning and nodding his head.
“Thanks,” grinned Harry back, flexing. “I almost got suspended for bringing these
 
in.”

 


“Can we  just  push  the  feather  down and get  this  over  with?” asked  Hermione
 
impatiently, stomping her foot up and down.
“Fine,” sighed Harry. He rubbed his hands together  again, cracked his knuckles, and pushed down on the feather side of  the scale. This time, it barely took any effort  to push it  all the way down. When Harry could push it  no more,  the scale  glowed a bright gold for a second, and a door suddenly appeared in front of them, leading out.
“Wait a minute  here,”  said  Harry, thinking this  was almost  too  easy.  “Are you telling me that if we just pushed the feather down when we first saw the scale, instead of grabbing the heart, then we would have to have never fought that horrible monster?”
“I guess  so,” shrugged Hermione,  walking towards the  door.  “Since the  feather was so heavy, it still tested your strength to see if you could push it down, even if it wasn’t as hard of a task as beating an Egyptian God.”
Harry smacked Ron on the head. With his ultra muscles, it must have really hurt.
“Ow! What did you do that for!?”
“You were the one that touched the heart in the first  place,” said Harry, tapping his  arms  with his  wand and returning them  to  normal  size.  “If it  wasn’t for  you joking around, we could have been out of this pyramid by now!”
“Sorry!” groaned Ron, rubbing his head and wincing.
“Sorry  wouldn’t  have  brought  us  back  from   the  dead  if   Ak  hadn‘t  beaten Amemait,” said Harry, feeling weaker at the loss of his muscles. The five of them marched themselves  over  to  the  dark  door.  Just  like  the  other  entranceways,  this  one  was  very
 
shadowy. Only, this room appeared to have no light at all; it was pitch black.
“Hermione?” asked Harry, when they all entered the room that was shrouded in darkness, and feeling a little frightened. “What task is this?”
“This isn’t a task,” she said, though Harry couldn’t see  her. “This should be the reward  room,  where  we  get  something  for  completing  the  four  tasks  and then  we  are allowed to exit.”
“I hope our reward is that massive treasure we saw before we started any of these stupid tasks,” said Malfoy. Harry had to agree with him. It would be nice to deposit all of that into his Gringott’s account. Imagine how many Wizard Duel packs that could buy…
Suddenly,  Harry’s  fantasies  were  cut  off  by  the  door  behind  them  closing, destroying any hope of retreat they had should anything bad happen. It was just like in the first  hallway, when the light went out. Only, this time, Harry had four other  people with him.
“Hey guys, how are we going to  get out of  here?” asked Harry, wanting to  hear their voices to remind himself that he was not alone.
There was no answer.
“Guys…?” asked Harry, now feeling frightened. Once again there was no answer.
He could have sworn he heard breathing… but was it one of his friends… or was it some sort of horrible monster, like another Amemait.?
“Guys…?” There was no answer….
Just then, through the darkness, something jumped out of nowhere, and right onto
Harry, pinning him down and knocking him unconscious.
 
Chapter 19- The Guardian Of Immortality


“Harry!”
A sharp voice  suddenly rang through Harry’s head. It was so  painful, hearing it echo around his brain. Harry groaned and pressed hard against his forehead, to try and stop some  of  the pain. As he did this, he suddenly realized that his eyes  were  closed. Harry quickly opened them, revealing a strange sight.
Himself, Ron, Hermione, Malfoy and Ak were each in a room around the same size as the past ones they had been in. Except, this time, they were each in a separate cage, placed in random spots around the room, like some sort of human zoo. Harry stood up and grabbed onto the bars, to see if he could break them down since they should be quite old. But, they must have been enchanted or something, because no matter how hard Harry tried, the bars didn’t move.
“Harry!” called Hermione again from her cage, sitting down. “You’re up.”
“Yeah,” yawned Harry back, sitting down too. “Where are we?”
“Don’t know,” Malfoy shrugged.
“And  we  can’t  get  out  of  the  cages  either,”  added  Ak,  examining  his  bars.
“Someone’s taken our wands.”
Harry, not even thinking of using his wand, reached into his pocket, just to make sure. But, sure enough, there was no wand to be found.
“So what are we going to do?” sighed Harry, feeling lost.
Suddenly,  a  hole  in  one  of  the  walls  opened  up,  right  next  to  a  big  red  dot, revealing  a  door.  It  flew  open,  and through  it  walked  an  extremely  hairy  woman,  who looked as though she hadn’t had a decent shower or haircut for several years. Her bushy red hair went all the way down to her waist, and Harry could’ve sworn he saw something
(or  several  things)  crawling through it.  She was quite  tall  as well, but very skinny, with most  of  her  face  covered by hair. Only her  baggy eyes,  small nose,  mouth and a small, beaded necklace around her neck were visible, and those were almost covered as well.
But, despite the hair that seemed to be a separate organism from the person, the most noticeable feature about the woman was the red glove on her arm. It shone brighter than intense rubies, and it was so beautiful, the second Harry saw it, he desired it.
“So,” barked the  woman, stopping before  them  and crossing  her  arms,  glaring. Her voice sounded odd, as if she hadn’t talked in a while, and wasn’t used to it. But, that was probably true. She must have been thousands of years old if she resided in this place.
“Why do you want the Gomotornice?”
“What?” asked Malfoy, sounding flabbergasted..
“We don’t even know what that is!” yelled Ak.
“Yes we do,” sighed Harry. Now, everything was coming together. Bob the Ghost said that heroes  tried their  luck at the four  challenges for  the treasure  at the end, to  be immortalized.  What  better  way  to  become  immortalized  than  by  making  an  Immortal Potion?  The  treasure  at  the  end  were  the  five  legendary  ingredients:  the  Ring,  the Sorceror’s  Stone,  the  Gomotornice,  the  Havomotornice,  and  the  Bomotornice.  The Egyptians had been the ancients that created those items, and they had hidden them in the pyramid…..
“We  didn’t  know  that  the  Ingredients  were  in  this  pyramid,”  said  Hermione,
 
probably realizing the same thing as Harry. “And we really didn’t know that you had the
Gomotornice.”
“Well, whether you knew it or not,” growled the woman, “it is my duty to protect it. Ever since  the last hero  passed through the challenges, the Guardians of  Immortality have not allowed anyone else  to  create  the potion. So, even though you have passed the tests, I cannot allow you to take the Ingredient.”
“That’s okay,” sighed Harry, just  wanting to  leave. ‘We don’t want to  make the potion anyways, We just want to get out of here.”
“Just wait a minute here!” yelled Ron suddenly, taking the woman’s attention away from Harry and over to him. “Are you telling me that the red glove you’re wearing is the Gomotornice?”
“Yes,” she hissed.
“How can we be sure?” asked Ron, stroking his chin. “I mean, what if this is all an act that you are just putting on?”
To this, the woman scrunched up her face at Ron, looking furious. She stomped over to Harry’s cage and reached one of her arms in, grabbing hold of Harry’s arm before he had a chance to react. The woman ripped the Ring off of Harry’s hand, practically taking the finger with it.
Instantly,  the  second  the  Ring  left  Harry’s  hand,  he  felt  weak.  It  was  as  if  a massive weight had just been dropped on his back, and all of his muscles had been ripped out of his body. He felt like a living bowl of jell-o.
The hairy woman took the Ring and touched it to her glove. Immediately, the map popped  up into  the  air,  proving that  the  glove  was one  of  the  Legendary Items.  A few seconds later, after  all of  them had seen the map, she removed the Ring from her glove and threw it on the floor. Harry watched it fall, as if it were a juicy cheeseburger and he had had nothing to eat for the past ten years.
“Now you see that this is the real item?” she said, pointing to her glove.
“How did you know that Harry had the Ring?” asked Hermione, swallowing hard.
“I saw it when I put you all in the cages,” she grinned. “And I know that you have the Bracelet, young girl. I used to have that one too, in addition to the Glove, but one day as I was making my rounds around the pyramid, that damned guardian snake exploded into a hundred littler ones. The snakes overwhelmed me, and I lost  the Bracelet. Not knowing I had lost  it,  I ran away. When I finally realized it  was gone, and I returned for  it,  it  was missing.”
“That must have been when I found it!” exclaimed Ron.
“And,”  continued  the  woman,  not  paying  any  attention  to  Ron,  “I  know  that
Dumbledore has the Legendary Watch.”
“How do you know Dumbledore has the Watch!?” demanded Hermione. “Nobody except for me, Ron, and Harry know that!”
“Well, that is an interesting tale,” she sighed, though she sounded as though she enjoyed the company, even if they were all in cells. “You see, just like you five here, I was once a Hogwarts student as well.”
“Yes… and!?” yelled Harry, curled up in a corner of his cage, wanting the woman to  finish her story as soon as possible  so  he could get out of  the cage and get his Ring back. He didn’t care about her stupid tale, all he wanted was the Ring, and he would never
 
be happy again until it was slipped back on his finger… never.
“Anyways…”  she  continued  after  Harry  interrupted.  “Like  you  as  well,  I  too wandered off from the main group, probably down the same corridor as well, the one with the huge pile of treasure at the end.”
“Is that treasure real?” asked Malfoy suddenly.
“Oh no,” she said, shaking her head. “It’s only a distraction, to make you stay in that place long enough for the spell there to take effect. It brings you down to the start of the tests. So, I fell victim to the trap and worked my way through the tasks, not worrying about what may happen, just overjoyed by my own sense of superiority that I had passed the tests that so many others had failed. By the time I reached the final room, the one with the treasure in it, I was so full of myself that I wasn’t ready to defend against the Guardian of Immortality at that time. He easily defeated me and cursed me to guard this pyramid for all eternity, just like he would have had to do, if I had not showed up.”
“That’s  all   well   and  good,”  said   Hermione.   “But,  how  do   you  know  that
Dumbledore has the Watch?”
“I’ve been in this place for a long time,” she sighed, leaning back. “I’ve had a lot of time to think. Out of all the pyramids in Egypt, why do you think Dumbledore chose to tour this one?”
“Because it’s the best one!” said Malfoy, looking quite confused. No one had ever told him anything of the Immortality Potion, so he was probably very lost.
“Not really, there are many more impressive pyramids,” said Ron.
“Right you are,” she said, pointing to Ron. “So, why choose this one?”
“I… don’t know,” admitted Hermione.
“Well, I believe the reason that he chose  this pyramid over all the others  is not due  to  what the  children  can  gather  from  this  place,  but  what he  can  gather  from  this place.”
“Meaning… what?”
“Meaning, Dumbledore wants the treasure that I guard.”
“No way!” yelled Hermione and Ron at the same time.
“Why would he want it?” demanded Ron.
“To keep it away from Voldemort probably,” suggested Hermione.
“Nope,” said the  Guardian, shaking her  head. “Dumbledore  has been coming to this  place  long  before  You-Know-Who  ever  even knew the  treasure  existed.  The other Guardian before me said that he had to keep several children away from the treasure, all of whom were sent through the tasks by Dumbledore. Of those  several, I was the only one who was ever cursed to remain here.”
“Dumbledore told you to go down the wrong path?” asked Ron, sounding as if he were asking if that were the punch line to a bad joke.
“Yes,” she hissed. “I got lost and he found me. Instead of leading me back to the group, he showed me down the wrong path, with hopes that I would get the treasure  for him.”
“If Dumbledore wanted it that bad,” said Ron, “why didn’t he just go through the four tasks himself? I mean, if  a few second years could do it, there’s no reason why he couldn’t, and then he’d have it.”
“I don’t really know,” she sighed. “But, I think the spell that brings you to the start
 
of the four tasks only works on youth. The Egyptians didn’t want all of their old and wise population dieing out by trying their luck at the tests. However, even if he could get to the tasks,  laziness  would probably prevent him. That and not  wanting to  put his  own life  in danger.”
“There’s no way any of that’s true,” said Hermione sternly.
“Yeah,” said Ron. “If Dumbledore  wanted the  treasure,  then he’d do it  himself, and  he  wouldn’t  want  the  Items  for  any  other  reason  than  to  keep  them  away  from Voldemort.”
“Oh no?” question the woman. “What makes you think Dumbledore doesn’t want to make the Immortality Potion for himself?”
There were a few seconds of silence, no one knew what to say.
“You’re wrong,” whispered Hermione.
“Am I?” said the Guardian mysteriously.
“So, you’ve had to guard this place for… how long?” asked Hermione, obviously wanting to change the subject for now.
“Eighteen long years,” she sighed, putting her hands on her legs.
“Wait a minute…” said Ron softly and slowly, as if he had just realized something big. “You’re telling me that eighteen years ago, all Hogwarts students came on a field trip here, and you’ve been here since.
“Yes,” she said, sounding curious.
“And what year were you in at that time?”
“I was a first year.”
“And you have red hair?”
“Isn’t it obvious?” she said, pointing to the hairy beast on her head.
“What are you getting at here Ron?” asked Hermione, sounding irritated.
“Hermione!” exclaimed Ron. “This woman here, the Guardian of  Immortality…
she’s my sister!”
 
Chapter 20- Escape From Geb Pyramid


“WHAT!?” yelled everyone, except for Harry, all at once.
“Ron! You don’t have another sister!” yelled Hermione.
“Oh yes I do!” said Ron, eyeing the woman up and down. “Only she’s been in this pyramid for the past eighteen years!”
“What  are  you  talking  about?”  demanded  the  woman.  “I don’t  have  any  other brothers except for  Bill, Charlie and Percy, and they’re all grown up now, not short like you.”
“No Jamie,” said Ron, startling her by addressing her with her real name. “After you went missing, mom and dad had four more kids, Fred, George, me and Ginny.”
“How  do  you  know  my  name?”  asked  Jamie,  gasping  and  walking  backwards slowly, away from Ron.
“Because you’re my long-lost sister!” exclaimed Ron.
“I don’t think so,” said Jamie, shaking her head and putting her hands up. “There’s no way that’s possible.”
“Oh yeah, ask me  a question  about  our  family,” grinned  Ron.  “Anything at  all, something only a true Weasley would know.”
“Fine then,” said Jamie, looking better. “What are mom and dad’s names?”
“Molly and Arthur,” said Ron lazily. “Next!”
“Okay,” said Jamie, a single drop of sweat going down her face. She thought for a second, trying to think of a good question. “Where did they get married?”
“The North Pole,” said Ron again. “Now do you believe me?”
“Not yet,” said Jamie, her confidence fading. “This last question is something that only a true Weasley would know. What is the true Weasley Spell?”
“Agricola  Bonas  Est,”  said  Ron  confidently,  folding  his  arms.  To  this,  Jamie suddenly burst into tears, ran towards the cage that held Ron, opened it up, and embraced him… like a brother.
“You are a Weasley!” she sobbed, hugging him tighter.
“What was that last question all about?” asked Malfoy.
“Don’t ask,” said Ron, his sister finally letting go. “It’s an old Weasley thing.”
“You didn’t even have to go through all those questions,” added Hermione. “You could have just figured it out by looking at the hair.”
“Um…” added Ak. “Do you think you could open the rest of the cages?”
“What…?” asked Jamie, her eyes red from the tears. “Oh! Oh yes, of course.”
“One last question though,” said Malfoy as Jamie looked through her keys for the one to his cage. “Whatever happened to the other Guardian of Immortality after you took over for him?”
“He  still  hangs  around this  pyramid,” she  said,  unlocking  his  cage.  “I see  him every now and then on my rounds. Being a Guardian is apparently the only life he’s known, so he can’t return to the real world.”
“You mean, he’s still in this pyramid?” gasped Hermione as Jamie moved along to her cage.
“Yep.”
“But, what if he tries to get us?”
 
“Oh, don’t worry about that,” said Jamie, unlocking her cage. “He’s a weird guy. Whenever he moves, he makes  this  really funny clicking noise,  so  I can tell  when he’s coming, and get out of the-”
Suddenly, the room filled with the most unusual noise. It was like the sound of a retractable pen being clicked up and down furiously, only a little softer. Like the clatter of a mouse gnawing on a cracker.
“Oh no…” groaned Jamie, looking quickly for the key to Ak’s cage now. “We’ve got to get out of here now! He’s coming, and he won’t be too happy to see that I’ve let you go. We haven’t had any visitors for a while and he won’t want to see you five go to waste.” The clicking noise  only got louder, and the more  piercing it  became, the more
worried Jamie looked. She was furiously looking through the keys now, trying to find the right one. Finally, much longer than it would have taken her without the horrible noise all around her, she  opened up Ak’s cage, just  when the same door  she  had entered through opened once again, to reveal a most horrible monster.
It looked more like a centaur than a human, only except for  being half horse, it was more like a half spider, with four black and hairy legs protruding out from either side. The human part of it was relatively the same, except where there should have been a mouth there was a set of mandibles, constantly clicking and seething a light green saliva, all in all being a very grotesque sight.
“Jamie…” it hissed through the clicking. “What do you think you’re doing?”
“Just…  getting  ready  to   dispose   of   them,”  she   said,  trying  to   smile   and nonchalantly moving over  to  Harry’s cage with the  keys  behind her  back, attempting to unlock his cage without arousing attention.
“It looks more like you’re setting them free…” he hissed again, darting his larger than usual eyes around the room.
“No,” said Jamie, shaking her head and fumbling for the correct key, even though she couldn’t see which one was going to use. “I’m just…”
“You’re just… what?” his asked again, coming closer to her.
“I’m just…” said Jamie,  finding the  right key and inserting it  into  the  keyhole, unlocking Harry’s cage. “Going to have some fun first.”
“How so?” he asked, sounding intrigued.
“Instead of me killing them, I’m going to let them do my dirty work,” said Jamie, trying to sound sinister. “I’ll give them their wands back, and the last one alive gets to go free.”
“An interesting twist,” hissed the monster. “But, just to make sure your allegiance isn’t wavering, I want you to do something first.”
“What?”
“I want you to kill one of them.”
Jamie  glared at the  monster  and he  glared back. Her  wand, along with Harry’s, Ron’s, Hermione’s, Malfoy’s and Ak’s, was sticking right out of her pocket, and her hand was floating right above it, ready to strike. Both of them started at each other, the terrible clicking continued. It appeared  as  though nothing was going to  happen, when just  then, Jamie made a move.
“Avada Kedavra!” she  yelled,  aiming  right  for  the  monster.  But,  just  after  the
‘Avada’ left  her mouth, the monster  extended one of  his powerful arms out, and a green
 
ray flew out, right at her wand and the ones in her pocket. The ray seemed to have a life of its own, sucking up each wand, and then squirming back, giving all six to the monster.
“Well  well  well,”  he  hissed,  glaring  at  Jamie.  “It  seems  as  though  we  have  a mutiny on our hands here.”
“Mutiny!?” yelled Jamie. “What are you talking about? I’m the only one in charge here; I’m the only Guardian! You gave the position to me!”
“You never truly stop being a Guardian,” he murmured. “But… in your case, you will stop being one.”
He walked over to the door that he entered through, crawling with his eight legs. He raised the hand that had no wands in it, made it into a fist… and brought it down right on the red button that was next to the door on the wall. It gave off a loud alarm and a voice came on that started speaking in Ancient Egyptian.
“What is it saying?” demanded Jamie. The monster grinned.
“It is saying that the entire pyramid, well, except for this room of course, is being flooded with gas.”
“Gas? What’s so bad about that?” asked Hermione.
“By itself, nothing really,” he smiled. He grabbed one of the wands from the six he had and made a small fire appear at the tip. “But, when combined with fire, it can make this entire pyramid explode.”
It took a second for this to sink in, but when it did, the reaction was immediate.
“We’ve got to get out of here!” yelled Jamie, running in the opposite direction of the monster. “He’s going to blow up Geb Pyramid!”
Harry decided to take this opportunity to start moving again and to get his Ring back. He turned his head in the direction of where he saw it fall when Jamie threw it down, but it wasn’t there. Harry fell  to  the ground, onto  his knees, and began examining every stone, but there was no sign of it anywhere. It was as if it had just disappeared.
“Come on Harry!” yelled Ron above the laughing monster. The four of them were following Jamie out of the room through a door that she opened on the other side.
“No! Not now!” yelled Harry back to them, not wanting to do anything until the
Ring was back on his finger.
“Come on!” groaned Malfoy, running over to Harry and grabbing him. “We’ve got to  leave  now!” He  pulled  on  him  with  all  of  his  strength  and peeled  Harry  off  of  the ground, dragging him to the rest of the group.
“Oh no you don’t!” yelled the monster, turning his attention to  the six of  them.
“You’re not  leaving unpunished!” He pointed the  wand that he used to  summon the  fire right at Harry, and shot it out at them again. The flame rushed at them, Harry closed his eyes, waiting for the fiery impact… but it never came. He opened his eyes up, to see why, and immediately saw the reason.
Malfoy  had  been  hit  instead.  He  let  go  of  Harry,  and  was  flailing  his  arms everywhere, now just a human-shaped ball of fire, screaming and rushing everywhere.
“Come  on  Harry!”  yelled  Hermione,  Ron,  Ak  and  Jamie  together,  sounding extremely serious and anxious. “We have to get out of here now!”
Harry turned to  his  flaming friend, but there  was nothing he could do for  him. Without his Ring on, he felt so weak, there was no chance he could transform and try to beat the monster. He had to run now and try something later.
 
The Ring… as  soon  as  Harry thought of  it,  he  couldn’t get  it  out  of  his  head. Malfoy, the gas, fire, explosions… they all didn’t matter now. Harry had to find the Ring! It certainly wasn’t in here, he had already looked, maybe someone else picked it up!
Leaving Malfoy behind, Harry ran over to the rest of the group, entering the dark hall  that  lead  out.  As  soon  as  he  caught  up  with  them,  the  smell  of  gas  became overwhelming. Harry almost felt as though he was going to pass out, and since he didn’t have his wand, there wasn’t much he could do about it. He did the best thing he could by bringing up the top of his shirt over his mouth and nose.
“What are we going to do about Malfoy!?” demanded Hermione.
“We can’t leave him behind!” yelled Ak.
“But we can’t bring him with us either,” said Ron. “He’ll blow the whole place up the second he enters this hall.”
“I’ll take care of it,” said Harry, turning around for a second and walking back to the door that lead to the room. Malfoy was still  there, on fire, but the monster  was not. However, Harry didn’t have time to worry about the beast right now, Malfoy was getting closer to them and he had to stop him. Besides, he felt another force pulling him, telling him to run back with his friends as soon as possible….
Harry looked down, to the side of the door, and saw a big button, like the one that Jamie pressed to  open the door. If he pressed it again, it would close,  keeping them all safe from Malfoy.
“Sorry… friend,” sighed Harry, slamming a fist against the button. The primitive door,  that was little  more  than a hole  in  the  wall, instantly  disappeared, along with any hope Malfoy had.
Not having anything more than survival and the Ring on his mind, Harry sprinted back to the group, not even thinking about what he had just done.
“What happened to Malfoy?” asked Hermione through her shirt.
“Don’t worry,” said Harry, constantly darting his eyes  everywhere, scanning for any sign of the Ring. “He’ll be fine.”
“I know a secret  passage  out  of  here,”  said  Jamie  who was at  the  head of  the group, holding a cloth over her mouth. “Just follow me and we’ll be back to the main lobby soon enough. From there, we can send an alert throughout the rest of the pyramid.”
Not  wanting  to  take  their  shirts  off  their  mouths,  no  one  said  anything,  only obeyed. It’s not as though they had much time to say anything, though, since they reached the next room only a few moments later.
“From here it’s only about a hundred more feet,” gasped Jamie. “We’ll be out of here in just a-”
Suddenly,  there  was  an  explosion  in  the  wall,  sending  dirt,  stone  and  dust everywhere. Harry looked up to  see  what caused it, and was not too  happy when he saw what it  was. The monster  that had stolen  their  wands only minutes  ago was now before them, blocking the only door out, all six wands in one hand, forming a superior  magical device.
“Leaving so soon?” he hissed, grinning. He waved the wands in the air, making a long, thin string appear. Attached to one end was a red ball, one that didn’t look too nice. He tapped the end of the long string with his wand, and it began shrinking at a slow rate, getting closer and closer to the red ball.
 
“That’s a bomb!” yelled Hermione.
“What are you doing!?” demanded Jamie. “You’ll kill all of us!”
“My time  is  almost  up as it  is,” he sighed, bobbing the ball up and down in his hand. “If I’m going down, I’m taking this hellhole and all who dwell inside it with me!”
“You’re insane!” yelled Hermione, looking almost in tears.
“Yes,  well,  none  of  that  will  matter  in  a  few  moments…  and besides,  there’s nothing you can do about it, without your wands.”
As much  as  Harry  hated  to  admit  it,  he  was right.  Jamie  and Ak were  useless without wands, and himself, Ron and Hermione were far too  tired to transform. All they could do was wait, and hope for a miracle.
Just then, as if on command, there was another explosion in the room, this time, in the  ceiling. After  the  dust  and stone  had settled,  Harry covered  his  eyes  and looked over, flabbergasted by what he saw.
It was Dede’ft! Only… he wasn’t looking too  well. His  eyes  were  massive and puffy all over, and his hide was now a swamp green. Also, his skin was literally crawling. Little bumps were moving all around in random directions all over.
“Whether  you  passed  the  tests  or  not!”  he  hissed,  though  only  Harry  could understand him. “I haven’t eaten for months and I… I… AAAHHH!”
The most disturbing sight ever to befoul Harry’s eyes suddenly came before him. The snake gave one last scream, and opened his mouth so wide, that his lips began to roll backwards over his long, thick body, revealing his horrible insides. Only, there weren’t any organs  there  anymore,  just  hundreds  upon  hundreds  of  tiny  snakes  that  immediately flooded the room, demanding food.
“Food!”
“Food!”
“FOOD!”
“FOOD!” they all hissed, slithering over anyone and anything to get to their goals. Fortunately, that goal didn’t seem to be Harry or his companions, but rather the guardian that  was  still  holding  the  bomb.  Tiny  snakes  were  slithering  all  over  him,  biting  him everywhere and dragging him down to the ground. He threw the wands and the bomb into the air so he could use his hands to try and peel the snakes off of him.
Harry leapt for  his  wand: the  next best  thing to  his  Ring. In addition to  his, he caught Ron  and Hermione’s,  and Ak and Jamie  caught  theirs.  Harry  quickly  tossed  the wands to his friends; now they were back in control.
“Let’s get  out of  here!” yelled Jamie, hopping over  the  snakes and towards the door, keeping a close eye on the bomb, whose fuse was now only a about three feet long, and getting even shorter by the second.
But, just when the five of  them began to  cross  over the slithering carpet below them, there was an abrupt eruption in the middle, something threw hundreds of snakes into the  air  from  below,  sending them  in  every  which  direction.  Harry  immediately  looked over, to see what it was, and what was there could probably have not been much worse if it was Voldemort himself.
It  was a  fully  grown werewolf,  about  four  times  the  size  of  any of  them,  one hundred times stronger, and invincible to every spell Harry knew.
“You’re  telling  me  that  old  guardian  was  a  werewolf  too!”  yelled  Hermione,
 
backing up and brandishing her wand, though it would do little good.
“Yeah,” gasped Jamie, backing up too. “I guess when Dede’ft made a hole in the ceiling, the moonlight came through, transforming him.”
“Who cares how he transformed!” yelled Ron. “All that matters is that he did and now we’ve got to  stop him!” With that, Ron ran up to the werewolf that was in a killing rage,  mutilating all  the  small  snakes  around him, turning them  into  a pulpy and bloody green and red mess.
“Stupefy!” yelled Ron, aiming right for the werewolf. The red spell came out and the beam hit him, but it did nothing. All it did was turn the attention of the monster away from the serpents to Ron. He gave an ear shattering growl, and leapt right at him.
“HOMORPHUS!” yelled Ak suddenly, waving his wand furiously in the air, as if drawing a picture. The strokes that he drew glowed a bright silver, revealing a circle with a star in the middle, and runes drawn at each star point. Evidently, he had been working on that spell for a while.
Each rune at every point gave off  a different color  and they each shot off  their colored beam towards the center of the picture, making a single point of great energy. An orb of silver grew at that point, and from it a massive, silver beam erupted, aimed perfectly at the werewolf who had pinned himself over Ron, and was now scratching and biting his face  and body  all  over.  The  beam  blasted  him  right  off  of  Ron  and up  against  a  wall, pushing on him with incredible amounts of pressure, enough to make him give a howl of pain, and create holes and cracks in the wall behind him.
Then, just  as the werewolf  gave another  howl, the spell  disappeared and he fell limp  to  the  ground,  right  back  into  the  pile  of  snakes  that  turned  from  eating  their slaughtered brethren to the old, sleeping monster, the half spider half man one.
“Ak!” yelled Hermione.  “How did you perform  that spell! It’s the  second most complex spell on Earth!”
“No time to explain!” yelled Ak, pointing at the bomb. “Look!”
Harry turned his head over to the bomb, and saw that the fuse was now little more than a foot long. If they wanted any chance of survival then they had to run now!
“Ron!” yelled  Hermione,  going  over  to  him.  He  was  a  bloody  mess  all  over, looking in about as good shape as Harry did after his encounter with Amemait. “Are you okay? Can you get up?”
“Yeah,” he  managed to  heave out,  getting to  his  feet  fairly  quickly. “I can still
 
move.”






 


“Alright, you guys head out!” yelled Jamie. “I’ll be right behind you!”
“No way!” yelled Ron. “You’re coming with us!”
“I will… I just have one thing that I have to do first.”
She ran over to the unconscious monster  and ripped the beaded necklace off  of
 
her neck, creating a bright flash from her head. She quickly threw the necklace onto the beast’s neck, creating another flash.
“What was that all about?” asked Harry, keeping an eye on the bomb.
“That necklace was the reason I couldn’t leave this place,” said Jamie, signaling them to start running. “Whoever wears it can’t go past the exit. The only way to get it off is to immediately put it on someone else.”
“That’s nice  but let’s  go!” yelled a seriously  bloodied and cut up Ron, jumping
 
over the snakes and sprinting down the hallway. The other  four quickly followed behind, knowing they didn’t have much time at all left.
“Harry!” heaved Jamie from behind. “One last thing….”
“What?” asked Harry, slowing down a bit.
“I want you to take this,” she said, giving him her Glove. “If Dumbledore sees me with it, he’ll try to take it. But, he won’t have a clue that you have it.”
“Dumbledore  doesn’t  want it,”  sighed  Harry,  still  not  believing that  she  didn’t trust them. “But, I’ll take it anyway, to keep it safe.”
Harry took the Glove from her wand and stuffed it into his pocket, reminding him of how badly he wanted the Ring. The only way he could continue going was to constantly tell himself that maybe Dumbledore had it, or maybe it was in the lobby.
“We’re nearly there!” announced Jamie when the exit became visible. Harry could just  picture  the  fuse  in  his  head, probably no  bigger  than a few  inches  now. With  that thought in mind, he ran even faster, as did the rest of them. Seconds later, they reached the main room.
“Harry! Ron! Hermione! Ak!” announced Dumbledore, who just  happened to  be right  there,  as  if  expecting them.  “Ever since  we smelt  gas in  the  pyramid, we’ve been evacuating all the kids and you were among the ones missing!”
“There’s… a bomb…” choked Harry, out of breath. “We’ve got… to go… now!” Dumbledore’s eyes widened.
“A bomb?”
“Yes!” yelled Jamie. “We’ve got to go now!”
“J- Jamie?” gasped Dumbledore, staring at her as if she were a ghost, which she must have been to him.
“We’ll explain later!” yelled Ron, grabbing Dumbledore by the arm. “But we have to get on the train!”
“What…?” asked Dumbledore, looking as if he were in a gaze from seeing Jamie.
“Oh… yes! Train! Bomb! Gas! Let’s go now! Everyone, hold hands!”
The six of them quickly formed a circle, holding shaking and sweating hands. The world  around  them  turned  black  and  spun  around,  much  faster  than  Harry  would  have expected or liked it. Dumbledore was probably Apparating in a hurry. Then, before another thought could pass Harry’s mind, the six of the them were aboard the Hogwarts Express, along with the rest of the students.
“John!” yelled  Dumbledore  into  the  conductor’s  room.  “Get  us  out  of  here  as soon as you can, if not sooner! The pyramid’s going to blow!”
“Can do,  Mr.  D,”  he  said  back  through  the  curtain  that  separated  the  driver’s chamber from the rest  of  the train. With that, the engine gave a lurch and began moving forwards at a rapid rate. But, traditional methods of moving would not get them to safety quickly enough, and the conductor  must have known that, since  a moment later  the train heaved itself into the sky.
“Harry,” said  Hermione  quietly.  “I think I found something that may belong to you.” Harry looked over at the hand she was holding up to him, and saw that on it, was his prized Ring. But, instead of thanking her, or anything of the sort like that, all Harry could say was,
“Give it to me!”
 
“I don’t know,” said Hermione sarcastically, with a trace of sincerity in her voice. She stroked the Ring. “I kind of like it….”
“Give it to me!” screamed Harry again, this time much louder.
“Fine!” said Hermione,  ripping it  off  of  her  hand and offering it  to  him. Harry grabbed it  out  of  her  fingers  and immediately  slipped it  on  his. The effect  was instant. Power flowed through his body like blood and he felt alive once more. Harry’s mind began to  work again and he found himself  finally being able to  think outside  of  the Ring. The memories of what had happened flowed back to him.
“OH NO!” yelled  Harry, getting back a memory  that wasn’t too  pleasant at all.
“Malfoy is still in the pyramid!” He looked out the window at the night sky, with the full moon shining above the giant pyramid.
Just then, as if it wanted to mock Harry in its final moments of life and receive the last laugh, the Geb Pyramid exploded into a shower of fire and Stone.
 
Chapter 21- Voldemort Returns

It was almost beautiful, in an extremely sadistic and twisted sort of way. At first, the pyramid acted as though it were a volcano, with the top of it blowing up into the air and then fire  and smoke billowing out of the top, with molten rock erupting from the inside and flowing out.  But,  as  all  that  was going on,  chunks  of  it  were  shooting  of  all  over, plunging into the growing lake of melted stone around the base. Finally, after only a few moments of all this, the Geb Pyramid just gave up and let the whole thing detonate from the inside out, causing the whole structure to collapse on itself, making a massive cloud of smoke rise into the air above.
Throughout all this, Harry could only think of one thing: somewhere, in that cloud of  dust or  in the  pile  of  ash and stone  was Malfoy’s body. He shuttered  at the  thought. What had he done?
“My  oh  my…”  sighed  Dumbledore  to  himself,  shaking  his  head  slowly  and looking out the window. “That’s going to take a lot of work to clean up. We’ll need to get memory wipers in here by the hundreds, and quickly too!”
“But… what about Malfoy?” asked Harry quietly, not daring to remove his eyes from the window.
“There is noting we can do for him,” heaved Dumbledore. “All we can do is honor his memory by trying to find his body and having a funeral.”
Harry wanted to so badly to beat himself up. How could he have been so… stupid, greedy, selfish, and everything else bad? He abandoned his friend and left him to die in a small room by himself… all for a Ring. It didn’t get much worse than that….
“This is all your fault!” screamed Harry in his mind, directing his thoughts to the Ring. “If it wasn’t for you, the horrible pyramid would have never been built, and Malfoy would be here with us right now!”
But, as hard as Harry tried to be angry at he Ring, he still had no desire to take it off.  It was like a child who had done something bad. Harry was certainly angry at it  for what it did, but was no closer  to disowning it than he ever was or would be. For this, he hated it even more… and yet he didn’t.
“Well,” said Dumbledore,  turning his  attention  to  Jamie.  “It appears  that in the process this trip, we have both lost and gained a student.”
“Hello to you too, Headmaster,” said Jamie, faking a smile.
“Jamie,” said Dumbledore, still looking at her with amazement in his eyes, “how did you  ever  survive for  so  long  in  the  pyramid by yourself?  You were  only  a second year!”
“The necklace kept me alive,” she said, looking at Dumbledore distastefully. “As long as you wear it, you cannot be killed by old age or  malnourishment. Of course, you still fell the pains of both. It has not been an easy eighteen years.”
“I can see,” said Dumbledore, eyeing her up and down. Harry looked at her again, literally in a new light. Now that they were out of the dark caverns of the pyramid and in the  light  of  day, he  could  see  just  how bad she  really  looked.  Her  skin  was no  longer peach, but a dark brown, caked all over with mud. The little skin she had was barely enough to cover her body; Harry could see  most of her bones. But, still the worst thing was the hair. There were grubs and a few other moving things inside it, which Harry guessed Jamie
 
must have wanted. Those were probably her only source of food.
“But, I’m sure we’ll have plenty of time to hear all about those past years when we sit down with mom and dad and tell them that you’re okay!” said Ron happily, patting his older sister on the back.
“About that…”  said  Jamie  slowly,  removing her  brother’s  arm  from  her  back.
“Maybe we could wait a little while… until the end of the year perhaps, until we announce my existence to the rest of the family?”
“Why?” asked Ron.
“Because I don’t want to be alone when I see them for the first time. If you set up something not too conspicuous, like when we get back home to introduce me again, that would be much better. It would soften the blow for both parties.”
“That sounds good,” said Ron, though looking a little disappointed.
“And  we  shall   all   make  sure   not   to   tell   anyone  your   little   secret,”   said Dumbledore, zipping up his lips. “Until you decide to show yourself, Jamie, I will allow you to stay at Hogwarts and assist Hagrid with his job.”
“Thank you Headmaster,” said Jamie, bowing slightly.
“Not a problem at all. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to go organize the cleanup for the mess we just made, and figure out how in the hell I am going to explain this to the students.”
With that, he stepped through the small crowd, and made his way to  the private compartment again, where the rest of the teachers were already seated. He shut the door behind him and locked it tight.
“Now what do we do?” asked Ak, breaking the small silence.
“I know what you need to do, Jamie,” said Ron, holding his nose. “For God’s sake, take a shower!”
“But don’t you like the smell of eighteen layers of muck, dirt, grime and bug skin all over my skin?” asked Jamie  sarcastically. Everyone held their  noses  tight and shook their heads and she laughed. “Fine then. I’ll see you back at the school.”
She  walked  down  the  hallway  to  the  end  of  the  train,  where  there  were  the bathrooms.  As she  made her  way each compartment, Harry heard many loud comments about the smell, and a few doors opening, to see what the source was.
“Oh my goodness!” exclaimed Madam Pomfrey suddenly when she saw Ron with his mangled face and body as she came by with her cart full of goodies. “My dear boy! You must come to my emergency room on the train now!”
She  grabbed  his  arm,  and  ran  down  the  hallway  as  well,  to  one  of  the  final compartments. It had a white door, with a large red cross on it. She threw Ron inside and shut  the  door  behind her.  Even through the  closed  door  at the  back of  the  train, Harry could  hear  her  yelling  about  how  kids  don’t  take  ‘flesh  wounds’  seriously  enough nowadays.
“If you don’t mind,” said Ak, “I think I’ll be off as well. I’m sure my friends were wondering where I am.”
“Are you sure you wouldn’t rather come with us?” asked Harry, wondering if now Ak qualified as a true friend. But, after what they just did, how could he not be?. “After all that we’ve been through?”
“And miss the chance to once  again try and beat out Harry Potter  by not saying
 
that I defeated an Egyptian God and a werewolf when he failed?” asked Ak mockingly. “I
hardly think so!”
“Fine,” sighed Harry. “See you later, Ak.”
“Well,   where   should   we   go?”   asked   Hermione	when   Ak   arrived   at   his compartment. Harry wanted to say that they should go back to the remains of the pyramid, and help look for Malfoy, but he had to get over that. He had to save his sadness for the funeral….
“Why don’t we go check on Ron,” suggested Harry.
“Sounds like a good idea,” responded Hermione. Harry could tell she was fighting to hold back her tears, and had been ever since the pyramid crumbled. Even though her and Malfoy had never been very close, Hermione still never liked it when anyone got hurt, and especially not when they got killed.
They made their  way down the hall, hearing the occasional exclamation of  how the  pyramid  just  exploded  like  that.  From  what  Harry  heard  in  his  few  moments  of listening, it seemed that everyone thought that the pyramid exploding had just been a show, a magical holograph. A cool way to end the first day of the trip. None of them believed or even thought for a second that it was real.
“What! NO!” Harry  heard  Ron  yell  through  the  hospital  compartment.  “No! It can’t be true!”
Harry rushed inside, to see what was going on and saw Ron lying on the single bed in the small room, his hands covering his face. Madam Pomfrey was holding some sort of contraption in her hand. It was white and cylindrical and had a red dot at one end.
“What is it Ron!?” asked Harry, wondering what could have caused him to react like that. “What happened!?”
“I… I…” mumbled Ron incoherently through tears and his face.
“He was bitten by the werewolf,” sighed madam Pomfrey. “I’m afraid that your friend Ron now has its blood flowing in him, and is now one as well.”
“But I thought it just scratched you!” said Hermione.
“I thought so too,” said Ron, sitting up. “But, I guess I couldn’t tell the difference between its claws scratching me and its teeth biting me. They both hurt just as much.”
“Only the fangs are the ones that carry the magic,” said Madam Pomfrey. “If he had only scratched you, nothing would have happened. And, by the way, just how and where did you meet this werewolf?”
“Long story,” said Harry, shoving her off.  How could Ron be a werewolf? This was too weird…. They were becoming just like his father’s old group of friends. They all were Animagi, and one of them was a werewolf. Harry hoped that there were no versions of Wormtail in their group.
“How am I ever going to lead a normal life?” demanded Ron. “I’m going to have to transform every month, just like Lupin… just like Lupin…. Great…! Just great, I’ll end up like Lupin; a poor, friendless loner. Just great….”
“Is there anything you can do for him?”
“Of course,”  she  said. “Once  the  magical  blood  was worked is  way throughout him entirely, I will be able to perform the Homorphus Spell on him and return him to his human form permanently. But, that won’t be until after his first  transformation, which will not be until around the end of June.”
 
“See Ron,” said Hermione, sitting down on the bed next to him. “There is hope.”
“Yeah,” added Harry, “and until  then, you’ll be invincible  to  almost  every spell that there is! Think of the possibilities….”
“Hmm,” sniveled Ron. “I guess you’re right. Being a werewolf for  a month may have a few advantages.”
“That’s the spirit!” said Hermione, hitting him on the back.
“Can we take him back to  out normal compartment?” asked Harry. “Or does  he need to say here?”
“Oh, I managed to fix those gashes and everything already. He is free to go.”
“Alright,”  said   Harry.  “Come   on   Ron…  Hermione.   Let’s   go   back  to   our compartment and wait until we get back to Hogwarts.”
“Okay,” said Ron, looking as though he was over his little trauma. He bounced off the bed and hopped right up next to  his two friends, looking as happy as he usually did, which was often far too  much. They thanked Madam Pomfrey, and let  her return to  her duty of  selling food, while they returned to  their  compartment. When the door  opened, Cho and Ginny were already inside, sitting down and waiting.
“There you are!” said Ginny.
“Where have you been?” asked Cho.
“And where’s  Draco?” asked Ginny, peering all around them. Harry, along with Hermione and Ron, heaved a great sigh and collapsed into the available seats. With Ginny looking at them in a confused way, Harry took a deep breath, and told her what happened, right from the beginning.

It was the worst trip ever on the Hogwarts Express Harry had ever been on. Once Harry finished  his  explanation, Ginny asked once  again where  Draco  was, with a rather blank expression  on her face. Just  as she  did, Dumbledore  came over the speakers, and gave the grim announcement that the explosion had not been fake, but very real.
As soon as he stopped explaining, a sort  of  panic broke out on the entire  train. Ginny burst into tears and all the prefects  were called upon to settle  down their house’s younger students. Harry had to grab Joe the second before he jumped out the window with no magical parachute on this time, and took Mike’s marker away, before he wrote ‘We’re All Going To Die!’ in Japanese all over the train.
Once Harry calmed them down, he returned to his compartment where Hermione was gone, tending to  the girls, and Cho and Ron were trying to  comfort  the traumatized and heartbroken Ginny.
“It’s just… not… fair,” she said spastically through her flooding tears, sounding as if she was going to hyperventilate.
“I know, I know,” comforted Cho, stroking her hair. “It’ll be okay….”
It went on like that for the entire two hour ride. Hermione never came back, and Harry had to  constantly  patrol  the  halls,  taking care  of  some  students  that we’re  going crazy, saying they could have died, the ones that the other prefects were too busy to watch. Harry breathed a huge sigh of relief when it all was finally over, and the train pulled into the Hogwarts station.
“Come  on,”  sighed  Cho,  heaving  Ginny  up  onto  her  shoulder.  She  had  cried herself into exhaustion, and looked as though she may collapse at any given time. Her face
 
was about the same color as her hair, as were her eyes. “Let’s get you to the school, come on.”
“Thanks for  helping, Cho,” said Harry, happy that he at least didn’t have to  deal with the mourning Ginny.
“No problem,” she whispered back. “But I think this one is  going to  need some serious counseling.”
“I don’t doubt that,” said Harry, watching Cho carry Ginny off the train. Though, he  thought,  he  might  want to  sign  up for  a  little  mental  help  himself.  No  one  that  he personally, really knew had ever died when he was old enough to actually understand what death meant. Harry didn’t know if  he were in shock right now from it, but if  he was, he hoped he would stay like that, so he wouldn’t have to deal with it. He didn’t want to accept that fact that Malfoy had died.
Just last year, Malfoy’s death would have affected Harry, but in a different way. Over the past year, he had grown to appreciate Malfoy as a person, an actual human being; and not a bad one at that. He was funny, kind, intelligent, serious when he had to be, and meant a lot to many people.
And now he was gone.
Harry shuddered and stepped off the train with the teachers, all the students had already gotten off. He held himself tight. It was so much colder here than in Egypt, very much. Even more so since it was very late at night, almost early morning.
His  teeth  chattering,  Harry  walked  up  to  the  main  entrance,  along  with  the hundreds  of  other  students,  most  of  which  didn’t  look  too  much  better  than  Harry. Dumbledore  quickly  walked  by  them,  and  threw  open  the  doors.  The  entire  mass  of students ran inside, trying to get warm.
“Everyone to  the Great Hall!” announced Dumbledore,  magnifying his voice  so everyone could hear him. “I have a very quick announcement!”
The whole  throng of  kids  first  groaned, then turned, rather  than going straight, into a dark Great Hall. The professors flew in above them and quickly lit all of the lights, brightening it up so that everyone could take their seats. With a yawn, Harry sat down at the Gryffindor table.
“I’m sorry to  repeat this,” announced Dumbledore, speaking as he walked up to the front, “but, as you know, the Geb Pyramid is gone. We were that last group there, and we are the last group to ever see it. The team of wizards that was sent there to do whatever they could  confirmed  that it  is  far  beyond repair.  However, no  Muggles  saw it,  and no bodies have been found.”
With that last statement, he turned to Harry’s direction and gave a frown. Harry nodded his hand in understanding. Malfoy’s body had been disintegrated by the fire, then the crumbling rocks. What a way to  go… he wondered if  Dumbledore  was going to  say anything about him.
“Tomorrow, I will continue with a few more announcements about the pyramid,” he  said,  lowering  his  voice   slightly,  answering  Harry’s  question.  “But,  for   now,  I encourage you all to go to bed, and get a good night’s sleep. You will need it after what happened…. Once again, I am deeply sorry that your field trip was cut short, but that is no excuse not to get a good night’s sleep. So, off you go!”
The student body once again sat up and walked off to their common rooms. Harry
 
didn’t bother to seek out Ron or Hermione, he was far too tired. All he wanted to do was collapse into bed, and when he got to his dormitory, that’s exactly what he did.
“Harry!” yelled Ron when he came  in. “How can you sleep  at a time  like  this? Ginny’s a mess, Malfoy is dead, and-”
“Ron,” mumbled Harry, not moving an inch. “Please, just shut up.”


“Harry…”
“Oh Ron,” mumbled Harry, turning over. “Not now, I don’t want to talk about what happened now!”
“Harry Potter…”
“What?”
“Harry…”
“Ron!” yelled Harry, sitting up and opening his eyes. “Will you stop doing that? Can‘t you see  that I am tired? T-I-R-E-D spells  tired! Aren‘t you feeling the  same  way after we passed the hero’s-”
Harry stopped right in the middle of his thought. Instead of Ron peering over him, waking him up like  he usually did, Voldemort,  in all of  his horrible  glory, was standing there instead.
 
Chapter 22- The Headmaster’s Room
 



friends.

 


“Hello  Harry,”  greeted  Voldemort  through  a  thin  smile,  as  if  they  were  old


“We  have to  stop  meeting  like  this,”  said  Harry,  looking  around. He  was  in  a
 
rather large room that he had never been in before, and had probably never been in there for good reason. All around him were old statues, stacked on top of each other and thrown in random places, both large and small, with cobwebs all over them.
“Aren’t they wonderful?” asked Voldemort, moving his arms in the direction of all  of  the  statues.  “They’re  sculptures  of  previous  headmasters,  you  know; the  greatest headmasters that Hogwarts had ever had.”
“I don’t see Dumbledore anywhere,” spat Harry.
“Humph,” he groaned. “This room  is  reserved for  the  immortalized versions  of only  the  headmasters  that  are  far  to  great  to  be  within  a  fifty  mile  radius  of  that  old buffoon. These statues here are of the many headmasters that have tired to turn Hogwarts into a school for the Dark Arts, but failed in their valiant efforts. Apparently, Dumbledore doesn‘t think you children should see them.”
“What do you want,” hissed Harry. He had been through this before and knew that the Voldemort  in front  of  him wasn’t real, just  a holographic version, a dream, like  the time he was in the common room with him.
“I think we both know what it is I want,” he murmured, glaring straight at Harry.
“No, do tell me,” said Harry mockingly.
“I want the Glove!” he yelled, looking furious.
“Why didn’t you just get it yourself at the pyramid?”
“I tried,” sighed Voldemort. “I told the previous guardian to  try and get it from you, after he had exterminated you six. But, of course, he failed.”
“I’m not going to  give it to you,” said Harry sternly, patting his pocket to make sure it was still in there. “You can torture me all you like, there’s no way. I know that you already have at least one Item, and there’s no way I’m giving you this one.”
“Very well then Harry,” laughed Voldemort. “Very well. I see that you are you are a man of  business,  Harry. So, I suppose, I will just  have to  give you a little  bit more… incentive.”
“Like  what?”  asked  Harry  curiously.  But,  Voldemort  just  grinned  and  tapped himself  with his wand, disappearing into thin air and leaving Harry all alone in the dark, creepy, windowless room.
“Great, now what?” Harry asked himself, looking around. He was wandless, had no illumination, and did not know where he was. Harry scanned the room, for any source of light that would lead him out.
Then he saw it.  Right above an especially  large statue  with six  arm, positioned almost like a perfect ladder for Harry to climb up and out with, was a hole leading out of the room. He walked up to the horrifying statue. It displayed the six armed man, with one leg on top of a skull and the other on top of a screaming head. The man was grinning, with an eyeball dripping from his mouth. Harry shivered and climbed up his arms, wishing that he  could  have  just  had  a  normal  night  like  everyone  else.  But  no!  He  had  to  have  a conversation with Voldemort.
 
Harry peered his head through the hole in the ceiling, to see where he was. It was a  fairly  normal  looking  hallway, though  one  Harry  had never  been  in  this  one  before. Instead of being the usual vibrant colors, it was rather old and looked in bad shape. How much of this school had he never been in before?
Harry  climbed  out  of  the  hole  and  stood  up  to  look  around.  The  hall  looked exactly like a normal one, only much older  and decrepit. Harry brushed himself  off  and began  walking  down  it,   hoping  he  would  arrive  at  familiar   territory   soon,  before Voldemort, or any version of him for that matter, came back.
“AAAHHH!” yelled Harry. Apparently, this hall was older than he thought it was. His  leg  went  right  through the  floor,  creating  an awfully loud  noise  and making Harry stuck between two stories.  He  was all  alone,  trapped in the  middle  of  somewhere  he‘d never seen  before,  and Voldemort  could appear at any time  and kill  him. This situation could not get much worse.
“Meow…” came a soft cat voice. Harry stopped trying to pull his leg out of the hole for  a moment and looked straight ahead. Before  him was Miss. Norris, Filch’s cat. Wherever she was, Filch would soon be, reprimanding severely whoever happened to  be there at the time, which would be Harry in this case. He had to get out of there… now!
“Did you find someone?” Harry heard Filch say from not from too far away. Any minute  now,  he  could  see  Harry…  and  what  would  his  excuse  be?  That  Voldemort summoned him down here? Filch was going to see him any moment….
“That’s it!” said Harry to himself. “If he can’t see me, than I won’t get in trouble! Thank you Sirius!” Harry remembered that he had the Animagus Invisibility Ring on and quickly transformed  into  his  gryffin  form,  becoming completely  invisible  just  as  Filch appeared at the end of the hallway with his lit lantern in hand.
“Do you see  someone?” asked Filch  to  his  cat  again. “Not very likely  that any student would be down here….”
He kept walking closer to Harry, moving quite slowly, as if checking every inch before he took a step. The ring may make Harry invisible, but it didn’t make it possible for people to walk through him! Unless he got out of the hole quick, Filch was going to bump into him and find out he was there.
Harry flapped his gryffin wings as hard as he could, though not hard enough to make any noise, to try and pull himself out. It was even harder in his Gryffin form, since the wings were not the strong part of the body, the arms were; those were what gave the initial push off of the ground. It was like trying to lift a barbell with your pinky.
“I don’t see  anyone…” whispered Filch, still  getting closer.  He was only a few feet away from Harry. He had to get out of the hole now!
Harry put all  the  energy he  had into  one  final,  massive flap of  his  wings. That brought him right out of the hole and onto the ground nearby. He tried to be as quiet as he could  about  it,  but  a  few  noises  were  inescapable.  Filch  must  have heard  those,  for  it seemed that he began to walk faster, and looking even more furious.
“I know there’s  someone  here,”  he  mumbled. “He’s probably got  one  of  those blasted invisibility cloaks on… I’ll get those banned next year.”
Harry kept backing up, to try and get out of the way of the rampaging Filch. Miss. Norris was quickly pacing back in forth in front of him, so he couldn’t risk trying to run past. He just had to hope that he didn’t run out of hallway to back up in soon.
 
“Blast it!” yelled Filch, stopping where he was. “We must have lost him by now. Come  on  Norris,  if  we  hurry  we  can  still  get  him  before  he  gets  back  to  the  Main Hallway!”
With  that,  Filch  and  Miss.  Norris  sprinted  down  the  hallway  in  the  opposite direction of Harry, and out of view very quickly. Harry breathed a huge sigh of relief and transformed out of his gryffin form. He spun around, to keep going, and then took a step forward… and fell into a hole.
“Woah!” yelled Harry, then covering his mouth up quickly so that Filch wouldn’t hear  him. The hole  took  up the  entire  width of  the  end of  the  hall and was fairly  deep. Harry fell for several seconds before he hit the damp ground, getting wet all over.
“Oh no,” sighed Harry, looking up at the very far away hole that he fell through. He was far too  tired to transform again, much less  fly all the way back up and expect to keep walking the rest  of  the way back to  the common room. He hoped that wherever he landed had an exit. “Now where am I?
Harry looked around, and was surprised at what he saw. It was a fairly small area that looked like a Muggle security room. All over the four walls were small television- like screens, depicting every single room in Hogwarts. Each was in perfect color and had a small label below, telling what each room was. Hanging from the ceiling of the room in the center was a sign that read “The Headmaster’s Room”.
“So it’s true,” said Harry, in awe of what he was seeing. “Dumbledore really does know everything  that  goes  on  in  this  place!  He  can  see  any room  in  the  entire  castle whenever he wants!”
Harry gazed at the walls of screens, in awe of what he was seeing. With this, he could spy on anyone at anytime, no one would ever have any privacy anymore as long as someone was in this room. He saw Ron and Ak asleep in their beds, Hermione reading by wand-light in her dark dorm, the house elves busy preparing tomorrow’s breakfast…. The possibilities of a room like this were endless….
“But,” Harry though, suddenly realizing that all these  screens  applied to  him as well, “Dumbledore can see whatever I’m doing. That means he may know that we have the Items! Or worse, he knows whenever we sneak out at night, and what we do. We’ve got to be more careful in what we do around here… we could be expelled! Though, I suppose, if Dumbledore was going to expel us, he would have done it long ago.”
Trying to stop worrying, Harry once again looked at all the screen. Most of them were showing students asleep in their dormitories, teachers asleep in their offices, and the rest  depicted dark and empty rooms… except for  one. Only one of  the screens  was not almost totally dark, and Harry moved in closer to it, to see what was on it.
It was showing two people talking in an office  that looked very familiar, though so little of it was shown, Harry couldn’t quite make out which one it was. He looked below the  screen  and saw the  label.  It read, ‘Headmaster’s  Office’.  Harry turned  his  attention back to the screen, and suddenly saw who the two people were! Dumbledore and Quirrell!
“-he is very close,” whispered Quirrell, so softly Harry had to really lean into the screen to head. “You-Know-Who already has one, and I think he could even have two by now. If he gets the others, then we’re all doomed!”
“Oh no,” whispered. So it was true! Voldemort did have one of the Items already, and Quirrell believed that he could even have more. Harry tried to figure out how that all
 
worked out:  he  had the  Glove and the  Ring, Hermione  had the  Bracelet,  and Professor McGonagall gave the  Stone  to  Dumbledore,  so  Voldemort  must  have… the  Watch! He stole it from Dumbledore somehow! But, what other one did he have?
“I know,” sighed Dumbledore. “I know. He is very close to the others as well, we must begin to use more forceful and blatant tactics. It is the only way.”
“Of course,” said Quirrell. “Let us call a meeting tomorrow, we shall figure out everything then.”
“Alright,” said Dumbledore, yawning a little. “We shall. Tomorrow then, Jerry.”
“Yes,” he said, opening the door and leaving. “See you later.”
With that, he stepped out of the office  and shut the door, walking down the steps. Harry  saw  Dumbledore  give  one  last  sigh  and  then  open  the  door  to  his  bedroom, disappearing from the view on the screen.
“Dumbledore  must  know about  my  little  nighttime  meetings  with Voldemort,” said Harry to himself. “He knows that he is close to getting the other Items, and I know it too. If things get any worse, I’ll have to give him the rest; just to ensure the world’s safety. But, first, I need to go to sleep.”
Harry quickly turned his head around, trying to find a door out, and saw none on the walls. But, in the middle of  the room  below the sign, there  was another hole  with a ladder going down. Harry jumped into it and began climbing.
It was a fairly short trip down, and the ground Harry landed on felt like damp dirt. It was extremely dark as well, so much Harry had to use up what little energy he had left to transform his eyes, just so he would be able to see here he was going. If only he had his wand instead…
But, just like the ladder, the hallway was not very long. Harry quickly reached the end and found himself at a three-way fork in the road, with each path having a sign above the entrance, telling where it went.
“Headmaster,” read Harry off of the sign above the one he had just exited from. He turned to  the other  three.  “Death and Main Corridor…. Hey! I’ve been here  before! This is that secret passage I found when the staircases changed.”
Happy that at least he was now back in somewhat familiar territory, Harry grinned to himself and went down the Main Corridor path, not wanting to go down the Death path, the  one  he  just  got  out  of,  or  the  one  that  led  him  to  this  fork  last  time,  unless  the staircases were acting up again.
Harry ran down the corridor, wanting to  get back to  his nice, warm bed and let everything that had happened in the past hour or so sink in and stop buzzing around in his mind. He quickly appeared back in the Main Hallway, stepping through the invisible one- way door in the wall like last time.
“There you are!” yelled  Filch  suddenly, seeing Harry pop out  from  the  wall. “I knew it  was  someone  with  an  Invisibility  Cloak!  Probably  the  one  you  got  from  your father, eh Potter?”
“Filch?” gasped Harry, amazed that after all he had done, Filch had actually gotten him. Both he and Miss. Norris were wearing the same expression, a smile that only a prize catch could bring.
“You’re lucky the headmaster’s asleep,” grinned Filch, grabbing Harry by the ear.
“He’s usually the one to  deal out my punishments, but since  I don’t want to  disturb him
 
while he’s asleep, I think I’ll just- WHAT?”
Harry, not wanting to hear what horrible task Filch had cooked up for him, used every  last  ounce  of  energy  in  his  body to  transform  fully,  turning into  the  gryffin  and becoming invisible. Harry collapsed right onto the ground.
“What the  hell!?” yelled  Filch,  looking up and down the  hallway. “I could have sworn  I  saw Potter  here  a  second  ago!  But,  he  just…  disappeared.  He  didn’t  have his Invisibility Cloak with him anywhere I could see…  eh, Miss Norris?”
“Meow,” she hissed, staring at Harry who was breathing hard and laying down on the ground. She and she alone knew that he was still there.
“It’s late,” said Filch, shaking his head. “My eyes must be playing tricks on me. I’ll continue the search tomorrow. Come on!”
Miss.  Norris  hissed  at  Harry  one  last  time,  knowing he  was getting  away with something when he shouldn’t be, and then ran off  to  her master, glancing back at Harry every few seconds, still  smelling him. When they were well out of  hearing range, Harry collapsed back into his human form, feeling more tired than he had ever in his life.
“Need… to get… to bed….” Harry managed to gasp out, an instant before he fell asleep right there in front of the Great Hall.

“Harry! Get up!” came a shrill voice belonging to Hermione. She poked him with her wand a few times, making Harry grumble, groan, and turn over. “You’ve been out here all night!”
“I know…” sighed Harry, rubbing his eyes. All around him, sunlight was flooding in  through the  windows and Harry had to  cover  his  eyes  from  being blinded. His  body ached all over from sleeping on the hard ground and he felt as though there was still glue all over his eyelids.
“I  heard  that  you  were  down  here  from  a  few  early  comers  to  breakfast,” explained Hermione, helping Harry back up onto his feet. “You’re lucky no one’s stepped on you or told one of the professors.”
“I would have been luckier if I had made it back to my bed,” sighed Harry.
“Come on then!” said Hermione, helping him up. “Let’s go to breakfast.”
“That sounds like a good idea!” said Harry, suddenly feeling much more  hungry than tired. He jumped up, right next to Hermione.
“Why  were  you  out  here  anyway?”  she  asked  him  as  they  sat  down  at  the Gryffindor table, with most of the rest  of the school already there. “Did you and Cho have an exhausting date or something?”
“No,” said Harry, letting all the memories of what happened last night flow back into his mind. “You see, it was-”
“Attentions   students!”   said   Dumbledore	just	then,   interrupting   Harry   and
Hermione. “As I said last night, I have a few more announcements about the trip.”
“Oh no, he’s going to announce that Malfoy died,” cringed Harry.
“I am extremely  sorry  to  say,” said  Dumbledore,  shaking his  head, “that while most of the school was able to evacuate the pyramid in time, not every was so lucky. I am afraid to say that one of our students did not make it back alive. This morning, I want us all to lift our glasses to-”
There was a massive, explosive noise just then: the sound of the Great Hall doors
 
being thrown open. Everyone in the room swung their heads over and Harry head to keep himself from screaming out loud.
It was Malfoy.
 
Chapter 23- Ransom

Into the room Malfoy limped, his left leg being of no more use than an anvil as he dragged it behind him. Malfoy’s condition looked far worse than what Harry’s did after his encounter  with  Amemait  and  Ron’s  werewolf  attack  combined.  His  entire  body  was covered from  head to  toe  in ash, blood, burnt skin, and little  chunks of  stone.  The few clothes that he still had on were little more than rags, and it was as though just looking at them was enough weight to make them fall right off. It was a miracle- no, a phenomenon that he survived.
“Will someone get the nurse in here… NOW!” yelled Dumbledore, breaking the uneasy silence  that plagued the  Hall as Malfoy slowly worked his  way down the  center aisle, an expression of blankness on his mangled face.
Immediately, a dozen or so students from assorted houses ran off as fast as they could to the Hospital Wing to get madam Pomfrey while the rest just stayed there, in awe of what was before them. Malfoy didn’t look as though he was in good enough condition to be living right now, much less walking.
Almost  as  soon  as  the  students  ran  out  to  get  her,  Madam  Pomfrey  came bouncing into the Hall, quickly scooping Malfoy up onto a stretcher that a house elf was bringing up behind her.
“My my my!” she said quietly as she lifted him up. “What has happened to you?”
“Pyramid… go… boom…” groaned Malfoy, clutching his sides  as she wheeled him out of  the Hall, shutting the gigantic doors  behind her  and leaving behind the most unpleasant  silence  that  Harry  had  ever  experienced.  Everyone  in  the  Hall  turned  their speechless faces to Dumbledore, waiting for and wanting him to say something.
“Well then…” he finally continued, looking in just about as much shock as they did. “May we thank the day that we did not have to raise our glasses to our fellow student Draco after all, but rather our heads to see him walk in the Hall!”
“What happened to him!?” demanded a random student, breaking the tension in the room. All of a sudden, everyone starting yelling and rambling on about what just happened, demanding various pieces of information.
“How did he get hurt so bad!?”
“Did	he	go	in	the	Forbidden	Forest!?
“He said something about the Pyramid…..”
“Was he left behind!?”
“SILENCE!” yelled Dumbledore, giving off an aura of power that did not require words to  make everyone be quiet. The Hall became as silent as when Malfoy walked in.
“Now,” he continued, much more calmly, “Mr. Malfoy’s injuries may have looked bad, but I can assure  you that they are  nothing that Madam Pomfrey can’t fix. I have seen  much worse been healed in no time. If any of you are concerned about him still, you may visit him. Once he is better, he will be able to give you a count of what happened to him much better than I could. Also, I’m sure I don’t have to remind you all that this is still a school day, so despite what has just happened, you are all still required to go to class, and try to do well.”
The silence continued, everyone was still staring at him blankly.
“You may go to classes now.”
 
All  of  the  students  in  the  room  scrambled  up  and  the  food  on  the  tables disappeared with them, some shoving a few things for  later into their pockets and mouths, others just leaving it there for the magic to take place.
“Let’s go check on Malfoy quickly,” said Harry as they stood up. “And find out how the heck he got back here!”
“That’s what I want to know,” said Hermione, looking as though she was thinking hard, trying to  find some  sort  of  logical way in her mind that Malfoy could have gotten back alive, but was unable to.
They ran away from the chaotic crowd and out of the room, sprinting all the way up to the Hospital Wing, wanting to see Malfoy before classes started.
“No visitors right now!” yelled Madam Pomfrey when they reached the room. She was putting up the sheet around Malfoy’s bed, cutting him off from view. Not letting them get another word in, she pushed them out of the room hurriedly, wanting to return to her patient.
“Don’t worry,” said Harry when they suddenly found themselves out of the room.
“I’ll find out what happened.” He morphed quickly into  the gryffin and nudged the door open, ever so slightly so that he could just slip through without arousing any attention.
“Now you just stay put,” said Madam Pomfrey to Malfoy as he laid down on his bed. “I need to run down to Professor Snape’s office and get a few ingredients for a potion to grow you a new kidney. I’ll be right back.”
“Okay…” gasped Malfoy as she exited, walking right by Harry, almost  bumping into  his  furry form.  Once  she  was out, Harry walked on  all  fours  over  to  his  mutilated friend.
“Malfoy…” said Harry, transforming back.
“Potter?” he asked, sounding better. “Is that you?”
“In the fur… well, now in the flesh,” he said. “What happened to you?”
“I managed to escape,” said Malfoy bitterly, not looking at Harry.
“Well I know that,” retorted Harry with the same tone of voice. “But how?”
“Well, after you left me to die in the room with that monster,” spat Malfoy. “I was able to put myself out by rolling on the floor  and rubbing some dirt all over me. After I was fully put out, I opened the same door you went through and worked myself to room full of  snakes where I found my wand. Then I ran down the hall leading to the lobby and looked  out  the  door.  I saw the  Hogwarts  Express  in  the  air,  leaving without  me,  and a second later, the whole pyramid just collapsed on me, bringing me to the condition I am currently in.”
“But how did you manage to get all the way back here, in only a day?”
“I Apparated of course,” said Malfoy lazily, still not making eye contact.
“What did you say?” asked Harry, obviously misunderstanding Malfoy.
“I said I Apparated,” said Malfoy louder and more sternly this time.
“But how…” Harry managed to get out through his amazed mind. “How could you possibly be able to Apparate? I mean… it’s illegal!”
“After  some  of  the  things  I’ve  done,”  said  Malfoy,  “learning  to  Apparate  was nothing. Beside, it’s not nearly as hard as people make it out to be.”
“What do  you mean after  the  things  you’ve done  it  was nothing?” asked Harry curiously. “What else have you done?”
 
Malfoy sighed and finally turned to face him. He sat up in the bed and pulled back the sleeve on one of  his arms. There, right below the wrist was the Dark Mark, the sign that all Death Eater’s bore.
“You’re a Death Eater?” asked Harry, not taking his eyes off of the mark.
“Have been ever since I was thirteen,” said Draco, pulling his sleeve back down.
“That’s the age of  initiation. How else  do you think I’ve been taught and given so much? Been told so much information? Trainees aren’t allowed any of that.”
“So what have you done?” asked Harry, amazed at both the fact that Malfoy was a
Death Eater and that he hadn’t realized it earlier.
“Can’t say,” said Malfoy, lying back down and turning his head to the side again.
“It’s time for you to go.”
“Not quite yet, I still-”
Suddenly, the bell rang, signaling that classes  were starting and Harry had to run out of there now if he didn’t want to meet an irate McGonagall first thing in the morning.
“I’ll see you later then, Malfoy,” said Harry, transforming into his gryffin form. Malfoy didn’t answer.
Harry walked over to the door on all fours, trying to be as swift as possible, but just as he was about to walk back through, Madam Pomfrey appeared before  him, carrying a pile of odd items in her hands. They looked like dried leaves, only bigger and yellow.
Harry froze right where he was.
“Oh! Madam Pomfrey!” yelled Malfoy suddenly. “There’s something there on the floor there on the left next to you!”
“What?” she  asked, turning to  her  side  where  Harry was. “Oh my! you’re right! There is a spot on the floor.”
She reached down with her  hand, right to  where Harry was in his gryffin form, ready to pick up some large wad of dust that Harry was just so unfortunate to have stopped on. Once he felt her hand coming into contact with his fur, he knew it was all over.
“AIEE!” jumping back  in  surprise  as  she  shrieked  from  the  shock  of  touching something when there should have just been air. “What is that!?”
“It was me,” sighed Harry, turning back into his human form. The door was shut, she was standing in front of it. Surrender was the only way out.
“Harry!” she yelled, catching her breath. “What do you think you’re still doing in here? I told you no more visitors and classes just started!”
“It’s  just  the  way  Potter’s  mind  works…  backwards  and  then  upside  down,” laughed Malfoy from his bed, grinning. Harry eyed him curiously. He was back to the old Malfoy  now.  Harry  had done  the  most  horrible  thing  one  friend  could  possibly  do  to another;  he  murdered  their  trust  and  left  him  to  die  alone  the  most  horrible  death imaginable.  And,  possibly  worst  of  all,  he  didn’t  even  apologize  to  him.  Now  that  he thought about it, Harry didn’t really blame him.
“Well you’re lucky I’m in a hurry,” she said, dumping the ingredients in her arms into a massive pot. “I don’t have the time to write you up a detention slip.”
“Thank you,” said Harry, looking at Malfoy. The more he gazed at him, the more he saw that he had changed very much. The evilness within was seeping out again.
“I’m not being nice, I’m being busy,” said Madam Pomfrey, not looking at Harry and throwing this and that into the pot. “Now run along! Quickly now! You’re late enough
 
or class as it is!”
“Yes,  Madam  Pomfrey,”  said  Harry  quickly,  slipping  out  the  door.  He  had  a feeling that his and Malfoy’s friendship was over. Preferring to be unprepared for  class, rather  than later  than  he  already  was,  Harry  sprinted  to  Transfiguration,  almost  fifteen minutes late
“Mr. Potter!” Professor  McGonagall screeched at him when Harry appeared in the room. “You are unreasonably late!”
“Sorry, professor,” said Harry. “I was visiting… an old friend.”
“I don’t want excuses, I want you to be here on time,” she retorted as Harry took his seat. “That will be fifteen points from Gryffindor, one for each minute.”
“Why are you so late?” whispered Hermione to him when Professor McGonagall returned her attention to teaching rather than Harry. “I waited until the last bell rang then I ran out of there.”
“Malfoy is the reason I’m late,” said Harry bitterly.
“Did you two talk for a while?”
“Not really.…”
“Then why did it take you so long to get here?”
“He got me in trouble.”
“Malfoy?”  asked  Hermione,  sounding  surprised.  “But  I  thought  you  two  were friends now.”
“Not anymore,” sighed Harry. “Not anymore….”
“Hey,” whispered Hermione a few minutes later. “Have you seen Ron anywhere?”
“What?” asked Harry, turning his head all around, expecting to see the red-haired boy next to him. “No, I thought he was right here, next to me.”
“Me too,” said Hermione, looking around again. “Did you see him this morning?”
“No,” said Harry, realizing now that he hadn’t seen Ron all day.
“He didn’t look sick last night or anything….”
“And I didn’t see him in the Hospital Wing if he was anyway.”
“Where on earth is he then?” asked Hermione one final time.
“I don’t know,” said Harry, beginning to  feel  a little  bit worried. He knew very well  how he  could  find  him:  if  he  just  went  to  the  Headmaster’s  Room,  the  one  with screens showing everything in every room in the entire castle. But, if he went in that room and Dumbledore  happened to  be there  first,  that could definitely lead to  some  awkward situations and questions.
“Let’s  just  keep  an  eye  out  for  him  for  the  continuation  of  the  day,”  said
Hermione.
“Alright.”

But,  throughout  the  rest  of  the  day and the  rest  of  the  classes,  Ron  made  no appearance. Not even at his favorite time of the day, lunch, was he there. It was as if he just disappeared from Hogwarts.
“Should  we  ask  a  teacher?”  suggested  Hermione  when  the  day  was  over  and everyone was heading back to their common rooms.
“Not just  yet,” said Harry, remembering his idea of  checking the Headmaster’s room. “I have a better idea.”
 
“Can we just check your room, one last time?” she asked when they stepped into the Gryffindor room.
“Why?” asked Harry.
“Just to make sure he hasn’t been there all day, sleeping or something. Trying to give us a good scare.”
“Fine,” Harry said, actually thinking that was a reasonable  suggestion. This was the type of thing Ron may have done for fun. They ran up to the fifth year boys’ room and threw open the door, seeing what they had pretty much expected.
“Nope,” said Harry. “No Rons are in here.”
“Wait just a second,” said Hermione, stepping in. “What’s that?”
“What?”
“That!” she said, pointing to Ron’s bed. Harry turned, and saw on his pillow a small note, written on a torn piece of parchment. Harry walked over to it and read it off. It was written in  extremely  beautiful  handwriting  in  red  ink  that  dripped  ever  so  slightly,  giving  the smallest appearance of blood trickling down.
“To Harry Potter,” Harry read it off quietly, trying to make out the highly stylized letters. “If you ever want to see your friend Ron again then you know what to do.”
“What is it?” asked Hermione.
“It’s a ransom note,” said Harry, lowering it down. “Voldemort has Ron.”
 
Chapter 24- The wNet

“What  do  you  mean?”  demanded  Hermione,  her  voice  lowered.  “How do  you know that? Let’s check the map.”
“Good idea,” said Harry quickly, wondering why they hadn’t done that in the first place. He opened up his drawer and took out the Marauder’s Map, the map created by his father and his three friends in their time at Hogwarts. It showed every secret passage and location of the entire school as well as where everyone currently was.
Harry scanned the map for a dot labeled Ron, but found none.
“He’s not  on  here,”  he  sighed, folding the  map up and putting it  away into  his drawer.  “Voldemort  has  probably  taken  him  away.  In  exchange  for  Ron,  he  wants  the Glove.”
“How do you know that?” asked Hermione again.
“Voldemort  visited  me  in  some  sort  of  holographic  form  the  other  day,” said
Harry. “He told me that he wanted the Glove. Somehow, he knows we have it.”
“Well what are we going to do?” asked Hermione. “We can’t give it to him.”
“No we can’t,” said Harry, trying to think of  what their options were. Evidently, they were not doing a very good job of keeping the Items secure. One of them had already been  stolen  and  now  they  were  in  a  horrible  situation  regarding  another.  They  had  to somehow change this.
“We have to  give it to  Dumbledore,” said Harry finally. “He’ll know what to  do with it and he can keep it safe.”
“It’s all we can do,” said Hermione, looking very concerned and anxious.
“Let’s get  there  as fast  as  we can,” said Harry, stuffing the  ransom  note  in his pocket. “Every second we waste is another second that Ron is in danger.”
With  that,  they  sprinted  out  of  the  dorm  and common  room,  evading people’s questions as to why Hermione was in the boy’s dormitory. Right now, Harry didn’t care what horrible rumors they cooked up; all he wanted was to find his best friend.
“Monkey   cakes,”   gasped   Harry,   out   of	breath,   to	the   gargoyle   guarding Dumbledore’s room. It moved out of  the way and the two of  them ran up the stairs  and threw open the door.
“Professor  Dumbledore!”  yelled  Harry  when  they  entered  his  office.  He  was sitting right behind his desk and nearly jumped a foot  in the air from surprise, throwing papers, quills and bottles of ink as well.
“Oh my!” he gasped. “Harry! Miss. Granger! What is it?”
“Someone’s taken Ron!” whimpered Hermione.
“And we think it’s Voldemort,” added Harry, catching his breath.
“What  makes  you  think  that?”  asked  Dumbledore,  standing  up  in  his  pile  of clutter, the surprise immediately fading from his face and transforming into an expression of urgency and seriousness.
“Because  he  wants  this,”  said  Harry,  ripping  the  magnificent  Glove  out  of  his pocket  and presenting it  to  Dumbledore.  Before  him, it  shone  like  a pile  of  rubies,  as bright as the sun, lighting up the room.
Dumbledore’s eyes widened.
“Do you… know what… that is?” he asked slowly, not taking his bulging eyes off
 
of the brilliant Glove.
“Yes, and we’ve known for a long time,” sighed Hermione.
“It’s one of the three Legendary Items,” said Harry, setting it down on his desk. Dumbledore’s eyes followed it all the way.
“How do you know that Voldemort wants it?” he asked them, very slowly.
“He’s told me… twice,” said Harry, gritting his teeth.
“How?”
“In my dreams,” sighed Harry. There were a few moments of  silence. Everyone just stood there, beholding the Glove as if it were the first fire ever to be seen on Earth, and they were all cold cavemen.
“Well then…” heaved Dumbledore, breaking the silence. “What are you going to do with it?”
“We want you to have it,” said Harry. Muttering those words was like trying to lift an anvil. For some reason, no matter how much Harry didn’t really personally care about the Glove and really wanted Dumbledore  to  keep it safe, actually saying that he did was incredibly difficult.
“So that you can protect it,” added Hermione, “better than we have been.”
“I certainly will,” said Dumbledore seriously, facing the two of them. He picked up the Glove and put it in the same drawer as the Watch was in. Harry peered inside as he did, wanting to see if the Watch was still there. To his surprise, it wasn’t. “I can guarantee you that as long as I am alive, no other soul shall touch this Glove.”
Harry was about to  open  his  mouth to  ask where  the  Watch  had gone,  then  he remembered he wasn’t supposed to have seen it in the first place.
“What was that Harry?” asked Dumbledore, seeing his attempted question.
“Nothing…” said Harry. “Nothing.”
“But what about Ron?” demanded Hermione.
“Mr. Weasley?” asked Dumbledore. “Well, if he is within Voldemort’s clutches right  now,  our  Aurors  will  find  him  shortly.  Since  Voldemort  did  not  leave  you  any specific  instructions  on how you were to  give him the Glove, I am assuming he did not expect it right away. I’m sure by the time he is found, Mr. Weasley will still be alive.”
“Isn’t there anything else you can do?” swallowed Harry.
“I’m afraid not,” sighed Dumbledore.
“But what if we try to find him!” suggested Hermione. “We’ve done harder things before! I’m sure that if-”
“No,” interrupted Dumbledore, softly but very stern and seriously. “For once in my life, I must insist. You two are not to go looking for your friend. Voldemort’s powers have increased drastically over the past year, and I’m sure that he would love to show them off to you two, and trust me: he can do things that are so horrible and twisted you would wish that you were dead.”
“And we’re  supposed  to  stay  here,  while  Ron  is  experiencing  that?” demanded Harry, taking a tone with the Headmaster that he had never before. Hermione shot a look at him that asked him what he thought he was doing.
“I am afraid so,” said Dumbledore. “There s nothing that you two can do for him. I will send word out immediately, and he shall be found soon enough. Now, I can put charms on you that will prevent you from stepping out of the castle. But, I think I can trust you
 
enough so that I don’t. Do we agree?”
“Yes,” said Harry and Hermione together.
“Very well then,” said Dumbledore,  taking a breath. “I ask for  you two to  leave now while I send out the emergency word. I will tell you their progress tomorrow. Until then, try to sleep.”
“Yes headmaster,” said Hermione respectfully.
“Whatever you say… Dumbledore,” said Harry, thinking that the headmaster was not doing everything in his power to save Ron. They stepped out of the room and walked down the stairs, arriving back in the main hallway.
“What do you think, Hermione?” asked Harry when they started on their way back.
“Do you think that Dumbledore- AAAHHH!”
Suddenly, Hermione leapt through the air and pounced right on top of Harry, like some  sort  of  leopard  or  lion  hunting  its  prey.  Her  eyes  were  bloodshot  and  she  was drooling through her teeth.
“What do you think you’re doing!?” demanded Harry, trying to push her off. She was much stronger now than ever before. It was as if Harry was trying to push a house off of him, a very vicious house.
“Give me the Ring!” she yelled, in a voice  that was not hers. It was deeper  and very raspy, like a voice that hadn’t been used in years.
“No!” yelled Harry, wondering what he should do and what was going on. “Stop
Hermione! Stop now!”
Just then, as if she were obeying his command, Hermione let go of his arms and legs and stood up, looking perfectly normal.
“Harry…” she asked, sounding frightened. “What just happened?”
“You attacked  me,”  said  Harry,  getting  to  his  feet  with  some  difficulty.  “You wanted my Ring.”
“Why did I stop?”
“Because I asked you to…” said Harry, breathing hard and still  wondering what the heck was going on. He decided to try a little experiment. “Hermione! Sit down!”
As if she were a pet dog doing tricks, Hermione sat down as quickly as she could and looked at Harry with a blank gaze. What was going on?
“Hermione! Stand up!” As expected, she stood right up again.
“How are you controlling me?” she asked, looking both horrified and amazed.
“I… don’t know,” said Harry, his mind feeling like Jell-o.
“But I think I do!” said Hermione suddenly, grabbing Harry by the arm. “I think it’s because of your Ring!”
“What? My Animagus one?”
“No!” she said, shaking her head. “The Ring of the Ancients! I think that maybe it has even more powers, some that we don’t even know about.”
“Well how can we find out what they are?” asked Harry curiously. “Go back to
Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom?”
“No, that book didn’t have much more information in it,” said Hermione, stroking
 
her chin.

 


“The library?”
 






to do it.

 
“No way, they wouldn’t carry information on things like that.”
“Then what?” asked Harry exasperantly.
“Well… we could…. No. No way.”
“What?” questioned Harry, his curiosity only now greater because she didn’t want


“Well…”  she  continued,  lowering  her  voice  slightly.  “Sixth  Years  and  under
 
aren’t even supposed to know about it, it’s only for advanced research. I only know about it because I stumbled upon it once in a book.”
“What is it?”
“The wNet,” said Hermione. “The wizard internet.”
“What’s so secret  about that?” asked Harry. When he was at the Dursleys’ years ago, he went online every now and then, when Dudley wasn’t around. There wasn’t anything too dangerous.
“The wNet and Muggle Internet are almost completely different,” said Hermione, wavering her arms. “For one thing, the wNet has been around for thousands of years. Also, the wNet is much more dangerous.”
“How can it be dangerous?”
“Well, you know how there are Muggle hackers?”
“Yeah.”
“Well, they’re  nothing compared to  wizard hackers.  They can program horrible traps  and  pitfalls,  and  not  to  mention  dark  wizards  to  pop  up  all  around  you  as  you research. Unless you know how to defend yourself very well, you can get badly hurt.”
“As long as it  will give us the  information we need, I’m all for  it,” said Harry, trying to sound brave.
“Alright,” sighed Hermione.  “But let’s  try  to  go  somewhere  private, so  that no one will see us cast the spell.”
They walked down the practically deserted hallway, in search of any empty room. Most  of  them were  occupied by teachers,  having meetings with each other  or  students. But, there was no one in the closet!
“Here, the broom closet,” said Hermione, opening the door  to  the smallest  and most dilapidated room Harry had ever seen. It was probably one of Filch’s old closets, one of his really old ones. The three brooms that were in there had mildew and dust all over, with spiders and cobwebs hanging everywhere.
“Well, at least no one will find us here,” sighed Harry, walking in with Hermione and brushing all of  the stuff  out of  his way with his hand. She closed the door  and they were all alone; in the pitch black closet. Harry couldn’t help but giggle a little.
“Oh shut  up,” said  Hermione.  Even through the  darkness,  Harry  could  see  her blushing. “Just because Ron’s not here doesn’t mean I’m not with him anymore.”
“Okay,” said Harry, bringing them back to the real world. “How do we get to the wNet anyways?”
“It’s a simple spell,” said Hermione, rolling up her sleeves. “wNet Accessium!” Suddenly, the world around Harry exploded. The small, dark closet  that they were
in was no more  and the two of  them appeared on an infinite  blue plain with some  white mist slightly above it, floating around.
“Watch it!” yelled Hermione, putting out her arm in front of Harry as he took a
 
step forward. He looked down and saw that below him a hole had appeared, one that looked as though it had no bottom.
“Where did that come from?” gasped Harry.
“See what I told you?” said Hermione. “This place is treacherous. If you had fallen down that hole you would probably have spent the next month in the Hospital Wing, not to mention having to answer some questions as to why you were here anyways. Unless you keep all of your eyes out at all times, you’ll wind up dead. Even though we may appear to be in a different world, our bodies are still in the closet and they can get hurt.”
“Alright,”  said  Harry  impatiently,  putting  his  hands  up.  “Can  we  just  get  the information and get out of here?”
“Okay,” smiled Hermione, looking excited. “wNet! I want to search!”
“How may I help you… Hermione Granger?” said a thin screen in a computer-like voice that suddenly appeared in front of the two of them. It looked a little like a window, only the glass was a light blue, and there was a cartoonish human-like face in the middle. It floated about them, almost like a ghost.
“wNet,” continued Hermione, seeing from the expression on Harry’s face that he had no  idea what was going on,  “what information  can you give me  on  the  Ring of  the Ancients?”
“Searching… Ring of the Ancients…” whirred the screen. The head spun around quickly and a question mark appeared above it. A moment later, the question mark turned into a glowing light bulb and the head stopped rotating, and it began talking.
“The Ring of the Ancients was created by the earliest Egyptians.” As it spoke, new screens appeared all around Harry and Hermione, depicting various scenes of what it was talking about. A moving image of some peasants building a pyramid was shown, along with another one showing the four Items and the Sorcerer’s Stone. With almost every word, a new screen showed up. “It was made to try and stop so many heroes from becoming gods by making it an extra ingredient in the Immortal Potion. It also-”
“Yeah yeah,” said Harry, waving his arm hurriedly. “We know all that.”
“Is there anything else you can tell us about it?” asked Hermione. “Like, any other powers it has besides being an Ingredient?”
“Yes,” said the screen distastefully. Evidently, it didn’t like being interrupted very much.  “The Ring  was  forged  with  a  few  additional  powers.  The  Ring’s,  along  with  the Watch’s, Bracelet’s and Glove’s wearer will find that he or she cannot bear the thought of being  without  it.  This  is  because  the  power  the  Items  give  their  bearers  are  addictive, making the bearers unable to concentrate when they are not wearing their Items. Also, if the Ring bearer takes the Ring off, and this applies only to the Ring, and another one puts it  on,  whoever  was  the  previous  wearer  will  become  a  slave  to  the  current  one.  Dark Wizards  have  used  the  Ring  of  the  Ancients  for  centuries  to  create  vast  armies  of mindless drones.”
“So that’s why I attacked you,” said Hermione, thinking hard. “My desire  for  it was almost overwhelming, so I pinned you down demanding it. Then, when you told me to stop,  I did because  you were  the  current  wearer,  and I had it  on previously. Right now, whatever you tell me to do, I will have to.”
“Sounds like a nice deal,” grinned Harry, looking at his Ring in a new light. This thing  had  built   armies   and  started   wars.  This  small   piece   of   jewelry   had  caused
 
civilizations to collapse and then others to grow under the extreme dictatorship of others. How did it ever end up in that old shop in Knockturn Alley?
“Does  it  have any other  powers?”  asked  Hermione,  trying  to  find  the  original screen  with the  cartoonish  head through the  dozens of  others  that were  now all  around them.
“Not too many,” said the head. “It slightly amplifies the wearer’s magical power, and increases their stamina a little. It also changes the temperature of the surroundings if someone  that has made the wearer a secret-keeper  is  near. The colder  it gets, the more serious the secret.”
“Is that all?” asked Harry, wanting to leave the overwhelming amount of screens and get back to the real world.
“Yes.”
“Then let’s get out of here,” said Hermione.
“Goodbye… Harry Potter. Goodbye… Hermione Granger,” said the face, bowing slightly. When it raised itself back up, all of the other screens disappeared and the two of them were back in the blue-floored oblivion.
“wNet Partius!” said Hermione,  waving her  wand hand. The world around them swirled and spun, bringing them back into reality, and back into the broom closet.
“Now what do we do?” she asked generally, opening the door.
“Well I,” said Harry, checking his watch, “have to go to the last Quidditch practice of  the year. You should go to  Madam Pomfrey to  get that curse  that the Ring gave you lifted off of you.”
“What should I tell her?” she demanded. “That you have the Ring of the Ancients and you are able to control me? I don’t think she’ll buy that.”
“Just tell  her you haven’t been feeling yourself. She’ll give you a normal check up, find the curse herself, and probably fix it, thinking it’s nothing.”
“I don’t know, it sounds awful risky-”
“Hermione,” said Harry sternly. “I am ordering you to go to Madam Pomfrey and tell her what I told you.”
“Okay Harry,” she responded robotically under the power of the curse. Hermione immediately walked off in the direction of the Hospital Wing.
“Man, it’s too bad she’s going to lose  that curse,” said Harry to himself when she was out of sight. “It might have come in handy.”
Harry ran off  to  his team’s Quidditch practice.  He  tried  to  avoid the  questions about where Ron was by immediately changing the subject,  but every time  one  of  them asked,  Harry  was  reminded  that  his  friend  was  still  missing.  Finally  worn  out  from worrying about his friend, and from the strenuous final practice, Harry collapsed into his bed that night, instantly falling asleep.


“Get up, Harry!”
“Enh…” Harry groaned, pulling the comfortable blanket over his head.
“Come on! You’ll be late for breakfast!”
“Fine fine,” he mumbled, sitting up and putting his glasses  on. When the world came into focus, he nearly fell back onto his pillow.
Right there in front of him, was Ron.
 
Chapter 25- The Disguise Dance

At first, Harry just looked in awe at his friend, his jaw opened and his eyes wide. How was  it  that,  only  a  matter  of  hours  ago,  he  was  being  searched  for  by parties  of Aurors, and now he was walking around in front of  him, making his bed and acting as if nothing had happened.
“RON!” yelled  Harry, surprising himself  at  how loud  he  said  it.  “What do  you think you’re doing?”
“I’m getting ready for class,” he said, staring at Harry. “I don’t know what you’re doing, but whatever it is, you had better get up now so you can do it.”
“No,” said Harry, shaking his head furiously. “What are you doing here? You’re supposed to be missing!”
“Am I?” he asked curiously.
“Yes!” said Harry dumbfoundedly. “You were gone all day yesterday! Hermione and I were searching everywhere for you!”
“Didn’t I tell  you?” he  asked. “I was with Professor  Quirrell  all  day yesterday doing  some  extra  credit.  I need  it  to  pass  the  class  with slightly-above-average  marks. Sorry, I thought I told you that.”
“But, you didn’t show up on the Marauder’s Map!” said Harry, still  in shock of what was going on.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” said Ron, looking at Harry as though he was crazy. “If you had looked on the Map, I would have been there. If this is all about me missing yesterday’s final practice, I’m sorry, but I have to pass Defense Against the Dark Arts.”
“But… but….” gasped Harry, wanting to wake up from this dream.
“I’ll see  you downstairs at breakfast,” said Ron distastefully, walking out of  the room. When he shut the door behind him, Harry just stared blankly at it, his mind trying to catch up with what was going on.
“Wait Ron!” he said after a few seconds, throwing his covers away and jumping off of the bed. He still wanted to know what had really happened and having Ron angry at him  would  not  help.  Harry  quickly  threw  his  school  robes  on  over  his  head  and  ran downstairs, calling Ron’s name as he went.
“What are  you  yelling  about?” demanded Hermione  when Harry  arrived  in  the common room. She was sitting in a chair, reading up on today’s lessons.
“Ron’s here!” exclaimed Harry, shaking his hands and arms.
“What?” she asked, closing the book.
“He woke me up!”
“Well where did he go?”
“To breakfast I think.”
“What are we waiting for!?” she said, shoving her books into her backpack. “Let’s go get him!”
“Wait  a  minute,  Hermione,”  said  Harry,  finally  regaining  control  of  his  brain.
“Why don’t we go see Dumbledore first, maybe he knows what’s going on.”
“No,” she said, standing up. Evidently, Madam Pomfrey had fixed her curse from the Ring; she wasn’t obeying Harry’s command. “If anyone knows what happens, it’s got to
 
be the person that all this has happened to: Ron.”
“He just thinks he was doing some extra Defense Against the Dark Arts credit all day yesterday. Obviously, someone put a spell on him just to think that.”
“Well then what should we do?”
“Dumbledore said he was going to try and find him,” said Harry. “He must have found him, and changed his memory around. He’ll know what’s really going on.”
Not wasting another  second with talking, the two of  them ran to  Dumbledore’s office,  knowing  they  didn’t  have  much  time  since  classes  would  begin  in  only  a  few minutes.
“Hey!” said Harry, looking at the announcement bulletin board. “There’s a Wizard
Duel meeting tonight! It’s about time!”
“Maybe I’ll come tonight,” said Hermione softly.
“Really?” asked Harry, amazed at her change of mind.
“Yeah, I played it once with Ron a while ago… it was okay.”
“I  can’t  wait  to  play  you  then,”  grinned  Harry  when  they  arrived  at  the  very familiar gargoyle guarding Dumbledore’s office. Harry muttered the password and it move aside. They ran up into the office, throwing open the door.
“Professor Dumbledore!” yelled the two of them, running into the room with so much force  that papers flew all over like birds. Dumbledore  was sitting behind his desk and he fell  over in his chair, startling Fawkes and causing some  books to  fall off  of  the shelves.
“Stop bursting in one me like that!” said Dumbledore angrily, picking himself up.
“Would you please knock before you enter!?”
“Sorry professor,” said Harry, watching him pick up the mess magically. “But this is just as urgent as yesterday.”
“We’ve found Ron,” said Hermione. “Or, rather, he’s appeared back.”
“I know that,” said Dumbledore, picking up his chair and straightening his hat.
“So where was he all day yesterday?” asked Harry, not wasting any time in asking how Dumbledore knew Ron was back, since he understood exactly how he did.
“Didn’t he tell you?” questioned Dumbledore, sitting back down in his chair. “He was with Professor Quirrell.”
“That’s what he told us,” said Hermione. “But what really happened?”
“What really happened,” continued Dumbledore, sounding a little agitated, “is that your  friend  Ron  Weasley  spent  all  day yesterday doing Defense  Against  the  Dark Arts extra credit, which might I add, he desperately needed.”
“But,” sputtered  Harry,  almost  in  disbelief  of  what he  was hearing, “he wasn’t anywhere on the Map!”
“What map?” asked Dumbledore, leaning in closer.
“The Marauder’s Map,” explained Hermione. “It shows every passageway in the school, along with where everyone is.”
Dumbledore’s eyes widened.
“And you have this map… at your disposal?”
“Yes,” said Harry. “Me, Hermione  and Ron have had it for  the past three  years. Fred and George gave it to me.”
“I think you two should be leaving now,” said Dumbledore quietly.
 
“But… what about Ron?”
“Ron  is  okay  now,  and  that  is  all  that  matters,”  he  said,  again  very  softly.
“Voldemort  must  have  known  Ron  was  going  to  be  doing  work  all  day  yesterday  and decided to pull a bluff. He wanted you two to bring him the Glove even though Ron was never in his possession.”
“But,” grunted Harry, just as the bell rang, shocked at what he was hearing, “that can’t be the truth; we would have seen him.”
“We’ll talk at another time,” said Dumbledore in a more authoritative voice. He stood up and started pushing them out of his room. “Right now, you have to go to class.”
Not  wanting to  get  in an argument with Dumbledore,  Harry decided  just  to  go along with what he wanted for  now and to leave. Dumbledore shut the door behind them and they made their way down the stairs.
“Do you think Ron really was just with Quirrell all day?” asked Hermione.
“I don’t know…” Harry sighed. “I don’t know.”

It was not one of Harry’s better days at Hogwarts. All day long, he, Hermione and Ron discussed what had happened, but Ron still swore that he was with Quirrell all day. In Defense Against the Dark Arts, Harry decided to try and ask Malfoy if he knew anything. But, he had changed his seat to one far away from Harry, back with the other Slytherins. Their friendship was now officially over.
In each class,  they were  reminded that finals  were  only  a few weeks  away and once  again,  they  were  on  the  day  after  the  Quidditch  final  and  the  last  Dueling  Club meeting, the one  that would be in front of  the entire  school.  All of  this  going on made Harry just want to go to sleep, and when he woke up, it would all be over. The only light at the end of the tunnel was that at the end of the day today, there was going to be a Dueling Club meeting. During dinner that night, Harry, Ron and Hermione were talking excitedly about it.
“I’m still quite new to the game,” said Hermione. “I hope I do okay.”
“I’m sure you’ll do fine,” said Ron.
“Yeah,” added Harry. “Besides, the game is more based on luck than strategy, and we three are very lucky.”
“Attention  students!”  announced  Dumbledore   suddenly,  breaking  the   air  of conversation that was all around the Great Hall. It was very unusual, for  him to  make an announcement at Dinner. It must be very important.
“I know that many of you,” he continued, “are still disappointed at the unfortunate early  departure  that  we  had  from  Geb  Pyramid.  So,  it  has  been  a  unanimous  decision amongst the  faculty to  bring about another  fun activity for  you to  take part in. It is  my great honor to announce that the Disguise Dance will be held at the end of this year, after the finals are over.”
The Hall broke into a cloud of confused talk.
“What’s that?”
“Is it like the Yule Ball?”
“Do we put on masks?”
“Students…   students…”   resumed   Dumbledore.   “The   Disguise   Dance   is   a privilege  given  to  very  few  groups  of  students  at  Hogwarts.  I  believe  that  since  this
 
school’s founding, there have only been a few dozen of them.
“The Disguise  Dance  was originally just  a way for  old  headmasters  to  find out who was causing trouble  at the school.  They put a spell  on the masks so  that when you wore  it,  if  you lied, it  would start  turning all sorts  of  wild colors.  So, at random times during the dance, they would ask questions regarding vandalisms and such so that everyone could hear, and whoever’s mask turned colors, they knew it was their fault. It was quick, legal, and the students didn’t even know what was going on until it was too late.
“But, everyone had such a good time at the dances that even after they had served their purpose, they were held every so often, and students were allowed to wear any sort of costumes that they wanted. Traditionally, the winning house hosts and holds the dance, so if you want yours to have that spectacular honor, then I recommend you earn as many points as you can.”
“Well, it looks like Gryffindor will be holding it,” said Ron when everyone in the Hall started talking again after Dumbledore finished. “We’ve won the past five years and it doesn’t seem as though we’re going to lose anytime soon.”
“I certainly hope so,” said Hermione. “It sounds like fun!”
“Only you won’t be able to tell who’s who if we’re all wearing costumes,” added
Harry. “You won’t be able to tell if you’re with your date, or someone else.”
“But that’s half the fun,” said Hermione excitedly. “See if the two of  you really love each other enough to be able to tell without actually seeing him.”
“Or her,” added Harry.

Harry,  along with almost  the  rest  of  the  entire  school,  didn’t really  pay much attention  to  anything  else  said  after  Dumbledore’s  announcement.  They  all  were  so excited about this spectacular dance that they were going to be part of that everything else seemed  almost  unimportant.  But,  when the  time  cam  around for  the  final  Wizard Duel Club Meeting, Harry, Ron, and Hermione broke out of that state of mind and made their way down to the Great Hall again.
“Oh man!” exclaimed Ron when the three of them stepped into the room. If Harry didn’t know better, he would have thought that there was another meal going on. Almost everyone in the entire school was inside the Great Hall, each with a deck of cards, ready to go. It was as if there was a flood in the room, only with people instead of water.
“There weren’t even close  to this many people at the last meeting,” commented
Harry, working his way through the crowd and up to where he thought the front was.
“Yeah… it’s  kind of  weird isn’t  it?” said  Hermione.  “Why did so  much of  the school suddenly get into it?”
“Who cares?” asked Ron, a hungry look in his eyes. “They’re all new to the game, so I can beat them all!”
“We’ll see about that….”
“Hello  everyone!” boomed  Ak’s magnified  voice  over  the  crowd. He  was on  a slightly boosted platform that put him over the heads of everyone. He looked quite happy as well; his club was a big success. “I am glad that you all are here! Now, since there are so many  of  you  tonight,  it  would  be  far  too  confusing,  awkward,  and time  consuming  to create a list and match you all up individually. So, what we are going to do is instead have you choose  your  opponents,  and then you duel  with him or  her.  If you lose  the  match,
 
please move over here,” he waved his arm in the direction of the space behind him that was marked off by a magically hovering yellow tape. “Once there are four people left standing, we will have a special team duel that should prove to be quite interesting.”
“Can we start now!?” yelled an anxious member. Ak grinned.
“You may begin.”
The Great Hall suddenly erupted into a chaotic mass of everyone eagerly talking to  everyone  else,  trying to  find  someone  to  duel.  Couples  of  fighters  scattered  off  in random directions all over the room, sitting down and facing off.
“You want to play, Harry?” asked Ron eagerly.
“Are you sure that you want to play me this early?” asked Harry. “That means only one of us will be able to continue in the tournament.”
“Well, that way the one who has a chance in the rest will still get to go, and the one who is obviously worse will be able to rest. He wouldn’t have won in the end anyway.”
“Alright,” said Harry, whipping out his deck of cards. “Let’s go!”
The two of them looked around the room, trying to find an open area where they could play. At first glance, it seemed as though the entire floor was covered by students, but Ron spotted  a small,  empty corner.  They stepped over  everybody’s heads and made their way there, sitting down and beginning the duel.
“You’re going down, Harry,” grinned Ron, shuffling his deck up.
“What are you talking about? You’ve only beaten me a handful of times this entire year, and that was before I was good.”
“That’s just because you keep getting those Dumbledores out,” grimaced Ron.
“Yeah, they’re  pretty  powerful  cards,” smiled  Harry, drawing his  opening hand.
“But I’ll bet they’re even better when they’re all combined into one.”
“Yeah yeah,” said Ron, interrupting Harry’s dream. “Let’s get this game started. Since you probably have the advantage here, I’ll go first.”
“Fine with me.”
“For my first  action,” said Ron, beginning the game with a tone of power in his voice, “I will play… The Nimbus Two-Thousand!”
Ron threw the card onto  the small playing field. Harry chuckled to  himself; so
Ron was using his Quidditch deck. This was going to be very easy.
“And then,” he continued, “I will play Viktor Krum as it’s rider.”
The familiar  messed  up face  of  Viktor  on his  card made its  way on top  of  the broom as Ron gently placed it there.
“Your turn,” he said as if the game was his after just the two actions. Harry drew his card, and looked at his hand of cards. There was a Hungarian Horntail, a Hippogriff, a Stupefy, a Merging Spell, a Summoning Charm and he just drew a Dementor.
“For my actions,” said Harry, his fingers tingling from the anticipation of putting down some cards, “I will play a Hungarian Horntail and then a Dementor.” He slapped the cards  down  in  front  of  Ron,  wiping  the  grin  off  his  face.  “Let’s  see  little  Krummy- Wummy deal with that!”
“He’ll find a way,” muttered Ron, not sounding too confident that he would. “I’m not going to attack with Krum, obviously, and I’ll draw my card.” He quickly grabbed the top card of his deck and threw it into his hand, glancing it over and then smiling. “For my
 
first  action,  I  will  play  Quidditch  Field.  It  prevents  all  damage  dealt  to  all  Quidditch players… and that includes my Krum.”
“Yeah yeah I know what it does,” groaned Harry.
“And!” exclaimed Ron, sounding much happier. “I will play the Snitch too, which gives all Quidditch players extra Power! Now not only is Krum invincible, but he can pack a punch too!”
“We’ll  see  about  that,” said  Harry,  hoping for  something  good  as  he  drew his card. He breathed a sigh of  relief  when he saw what it was: a Korosucide! If Harry was lucky, it would destroy the Quidditch Field. “I’m going to play… Korosucide!” Since the card that Korosucide  destroyed was random, Harry held the card high above the playing field, closed his eyes and let go of it, hoping that it would land on one of Ron’s cards. He heard the soft sound if it coming in contact with the ground and Harry opened his eyes.
“Whoops,”  exclaimed  Ron,  grinning.  Harry  looked  down  and  saw  that  the Korosucide  card  had landed  on  his  Dementor.  He  sighed  and put  the  two  cards  in  his discard pile. Things were not going very well.
“I guess I’ll just Stupefy your Viktor Krum now,” heaved Harry. “Now at least he can’t attack my Horntail.”
“For  one  turn  anyways,” grinned  Ron  as  he  drew his  card.  “And now, I’ll  play another  Nimbus  Two-Thousand and then  a Ludo  Bagman for  its  rider!  Now I have two invincible and powerful broomed warriors!”
“Great,” sighed Harry as he drew a Lumos Spell. “I guess I’ll play my Hippogriff, and then merge it with my Hungarian Horntail.” Harry put the two cards on top of  each other, and tried to imagine what the new beast would look like.
“Good, now I have to only beat one monster instead of two,” said Ron, beginning his turn. “First, I’m going to attack your Hungarian-Griff with Krum and Bagman, killing it. Then, I’ll put out a Firebolt this time, and make Quigley, from the Ireland team, its rider.”
Harry’s  hope  was  quickly  fading  as  he  moved  his  combined  creature  into  his discard pile and looked at Ron’s three invincible fighters. He had no more fighters in his hand to defend against their attacks, so next turn, all their power would go directly to his deck and nearly wipe him out. He had to get something good…. Harry drew his card.
“An Engorgio Charm,” moaned Harry, very disappointed. He looked through the measly cards in his hand again, to see if there was anything worth using. All that he could really use was the Summoning Charm. “I’m going to draw five cards with the Summoning Charm.”
“Whatever,” smirked Ron.
Harry drew his five cards: another Engorgio Charm, a Disarming Charm, a Lumos
Spell, a Merging Spell and-
“Dumbledore,”  said  Harry  to  himself,  looking  at  the  wonderful  card.  He  did  a silent gesture of happiness, and then smiled, ready to beat Ron. “And for my last action, I will play Dumbledore!”
“No! Not  again!” cried  Ron  as  the  card  came  onto  the  floor.  He  had been  the victim of Dumbledore’s special ability many times, and now was going to be no different.
“And now it’s  time  for  Dumbledore’s  ability  to  take  effect,  all  your  cards  are belong to me!” Harry made a giant sweeping motion, making his arms like rakes and Ron’s cards like leaves. He brought them all over to his playing side… they were now his. The
 
Quidditch Field, the Snitch, the three fighters… all of it.
“Your turn, Ronnie,” winked Harry.
“Just when I was about to win….”
“That’s what Dumbledore does, he’ll take you by surprise and turn everyone you know against you,” said Harry sarcastically.
“Oh no!” yelled Ron, looking at the card he just drew. “I didn’t get any fighters! Nothing can defend me from your attack next turn! I lost!”
“As usual,” beamed Harry, gathering up his cards and giving Ron back his. “Sorry to take you out of the tournament, though.”
“It’s okay, I probably would have lost eventually anyway. Those Dumbledores are just unbeatable.”
“Pretty  much,” said  Harry,  nodding his  head  and looking  around the  room  for another person to play. “I don’t know any cards that can beat him.”
“I’ll see you in the loser’s bin,” sighed Ron as he headed over to the designated area where the losers of each match went. There were already several others in there with him, and more were coming in by the minute.
“We’ll just see about that.”
“Hey Harry  Potter!”  yelled  a  student  that  Harry  had never  seen  before.  Harry turned around, and before  him was a fourth  year  Ravenclaw that had a very determined look on her freckled face. “You want to play me, or are you afraid?”
“Even though you are definitely very intimidating,” said Harry facetiously, “I think
I’ll try my luck.”
“Huzzah!” shrieked the child. “Prepare to be defeated!”
Despite all of her previous bragging, it was a very easy match. It was only a few turns until Harry dominated the field with his Voldemort and then a strategic Dumbledore when she had several fighters out. The look on her face when that happened was priceless.
After that match, the loser’s area was getting very crowded, and the people that were still left available to play wouldn’t go near Harry. He was the champion, and nobody wanted  to  wreck  their  chances  at  victory  by playing him.  It  wasn’t nearly  as  much  fun watching the people that were left  play each other  than actually playing a game. Luckily for Harry, the last four contestants were revealed fairly soon.
“Well it seems  as though the final four  have arrived,” said Ak when the loser’s area was so  crowded that the  people  had to  stand on  top  of  each  other  to  fit  in. Harry looked to see who the last four remaining were: himself, Ak, Malfoy surprisingly, and-
“Hermione!” exclaimed  Harry  when he  saw her  there  amongst  them.  “How on
Earth did you get here!”
“Well, this game isn’t too difficult to strategize with,” she shrugged, “and the rest is just luck, which I’ve got plenty of since I’m a beginner.”
“Well I congratulate you three on getting to the final round,” smiled Ak to them.
“This deciding match will certainly be a fun one, that is guaranteed.” With that, he took his wand out of his pocket and tapped the ground with it. There was a small shake all over the room and a small hole opened up in front of them, bringing out with it a large table that had the  same  surface  as  the  holographic  playing table,  only  it  was about  four  times  as large, and much higher up.
“All four of us will play here,” he said.
 



that.”









 
“All against each other?” asked Harry.
“No, we’ll  all  get  into  two  teams  of  two  and then  play against  each  other  like


“How will we decide teams?” asked Malfoy, looking at Harry distastefully.
“How do you want to decide teams?” asked Ak.
“How about… I’m not with Potter.”
“Alright then, it will be you and me Malfoy, against Hermione and Harry.”
“Sounds almost too easy to be true….”
“Everyone  in  the  losing  area,” announced  Ak, “you can  now come  back to  the
 
main hall where you can watch the final match!”
The  massive  crowd  shuffled  it’s  way  over  to  the  table  where  the  final  four contenders  were each at a different corner, ready to  play. Everyone was so eager to see what was going on that they were pressing up right against Harry, Hermione, Malfoy and Ak, pushing them almost onto the table’s surface.
“Harry,” said Ak to  everyone, “you know the drill. Put your decks into the slot, and your starting hand will appear in front of you.”
“How exactly will this team game work?” asked Harry, as he slipped his deck into the slot along with everyone else.
“It’s very easy. All we do is take turns by each individual taking a turn and he or she can do whatever they want. But, if one person on a team loses,  then the entire  team loses. Understand?”
“Yeah,” said the four of  them together  as their cards appeared in front of  them. Harry  couldn’t  see  Malfoy’s  or  Ak’s, but  he  could  see  his  and Hermione’s.  She  had a Disarming Spell, a Stupefy, a Meherius Spell, an Increase  Time Spell, and a Lumos. No fighters.
“Hermione!” whispered Harry to her. “Where are your fighters?”
“Don’t have any,” she whispered back.
“Oh great…” sighed Harry, looking at his starting hand: a Hippogriff, a Phoenix, a
Merging Spell, an Engorgio, and… a Voldemort! Things were starting to look up.
“Now we flip a coin to see who goes first,” said Ak, taking out a Galleon. “Which side do you want, wizard or ministry?”
“What do you think, Hermione?”
“Let’s go with… wizard!”
“Alright!” said Ak, tossing the coin up in the air as everyone’s eyes in the room watching it go all the way up, spin around a few times and then land back down, with the wizard side up.
“Okay then, you go first Harry,” said Ak.
“Hey Potter,” said Malfoy. “Are you feeling lucky after that coin flip?”
“It depends why.”
“How  about  we  make  this  match  even  more  interesting,”  he  said,  raising  his eyebrows.
“Well, how about we put a small wager on the match,” he grinned. “The winning team gets fifty points added to each member’s house.”
“Seeing as Gryffindor gets at least fifty points either way,” said Harry, “I’m in.”
“Excellent…” hissed Malfoy.
 
“Harry, it’s still your turn,” said Ak, sounding like he wanted to get underway.
“Very well,” grinned Harry, the faces of all the students pressing in on him as the table gave him his card (a Stupefy). “For my first action, I will play Voldemort!”
Harry slapped the holographic version of the card down on the table and the small form of the horrible wizard appeared on the table. His arms were folding and he had a snarl on his face, ready to go.
“And then  I will  use  an Engorgio  Charm on  him, to  make  him even stronger!”
proclaimed Harry, feeling that victory was close, even though it was the first turn.
“Now whose turn is it, Ak?” demanded Malfoy.
“Actually, it’s yours now, then Hermione’s, then mine.”
“Excellent,”  hissed  Malfoy,  drawing his  card.  “First,  I’ll  use  another  Engorgio Charm on your Voldemort.” He threw the hologram card next to Harry’s Voldemort and it grew even taller, its power increasing.
“What did you do that for?” asked Harry. “Now I’ll just beat you faster!”
“And now,” continued Malfoy, going on as if  he hadn’t heard Harry, “I’ll play a Voldemort of my own.” Malfoy placed the card down, and the two Voldemort’s faced each other. Harry’s bigger one smirked at Malfoy’s, and his just started at Harry’s, giving him horrible looks.
“My turn,”  announced  Hermione  as  she  drew  her  card.  Harry  saw  that  it  was another  Maherius.  “I’ll play a Stupefy on  your  Voldemort,  Malfoy.” She gently laid the holograph down on the table and a red beam shot out, hitting the Voldemort and giving him a  red  glow,  preventing  him  from  attacking…  for  one  turn  anyway.  “Then,  I’ll  use  a Maherius Curse on myself.”
“Hermione!” yelled Harry as the spell hit her deck and she lost five cards. “What do you think you’re doing!?”
“Don’t worry…” she smiled. “I got here, didn’t I? My strategy must work.”
“Yeah, but by killing yourself?”
“My turn now,” announced Ak, breaking up Harry and Hermione.  “I’m going to firstly use yet another Engorgio Spell on your Voldemort there Harry.”
“Be my guest!” said Harry as his Voldemort grew even taller and more powerful.
“Then,” grinned Ak, “I’ll use the Imperius Curse on you Voldemort and bring him over to our side.”
“No!” yelled  Harry  amongst  chatter  and some  laughter  from  the  crowd  as  his Voldemort disappeared in a puff of smoke and reappeared on Ak’s side. That’s why they were  making him  so  powerful,  so  they  could  just  scoop  him  up  and make  him  theirs. Sneaky….
“Your turn, Harry,” smiled Malfoy.
“I know that,” hissed Harry as the table dealt him his card, angry that he had lost his Voldemort. He had drawn an Increase Time Spell. That wouldn’t help him very much right now.
“I guess I’ll play my phoenix first,” said Harry, still a little down. The wonderful phoenix popped out of the surface, flapping its wings and sending little  embers all over.
“Then I’ll stupefy your more powerful Voldemort, Ak.”
“Playing defensive, are we Potter?” asked Malfoy, getting his card.
“A good defense is a good offense.”
 
“Yes, well a good offense  is an even better  offense,” he smirked back. “For my first action, I’ll play another Voldemort for you two to deal with, and I believe that kills your  little  phoenix  as  well.  Then  for  my  second,  I  will  put  out  a  Constant  Vigilance Potion.”
“What does  that  do?”  asked  Hermione  as  the  Voldemort  appeared  next  to  the other  two and a bubbling cauldron as well. Harry’s phoenix collapsed  to  the  crowd and disappeared to the discard pile.
“Granger, it’s your turn now,” said Malfoy, ignoring her question.
“Fine. I’ll play a Stupefy on your new Voldemort, Malfoy, saving us for  a turn. Then, I’ll play another Maherius Curse on myself!”
“Hermione!”  yelled  Harry  again.  “Use  that  on  one  of  their  Voldemorts,  not yourself!”
“Don’t worry…”
“Okay, how about I start off by making the number of Voldemorts on the field an even four?” smiled Ak, beginning his turn immediately. The fourth Voldemort appeared on the field. With it’s rising, Harry’s hope sank. How could he possibly defend against four Voldemorts? It was almost impossible.
“Now, it’s  time  to  win this  match,” said  Ak, with a fire  in his  eyes.  “I’ll use  a Merging Spell on all four Voldemorts, creating the most horrible fighting force this earth has ever seen!”
As soon  as  he  placed  the  Merging Spell  on  the  table,  four  holographic  snakes appeared  and they  slithered  across  the  surface  of  the  table,  each  wrapping themselves around a Voldemort. Once they all were holding their victims securely, they slithered back to   the   same   spot   and  melted   together,   creating  a  hideous,  multi-colored   blob  of Voldemort and snake. It jiggled and flashed colors, then took form.
The new fighter was the most terrifying thing Harry had ever seen. It stood almost three  feet  tall on the table, shadowing over everyone in the room. It’s head looked like Voldemort’s only it had snakes where there should have been hair. They all snapped and bit at each other,  hoping to  kill  all others  but himself.  The monster  had six arms, three  on either  side with long, knife-like fingers coming off  of  each. There were snakes popping out and hissing all over the monster’s body and they wrapped themselves around its arms, occasionally cutting themselves on his sharp fingers. Behind it was a massive, black cape that dragged on the floor, adding to its terrifyingness.
“Four separate Voldemorts  are definitely a formidable fighting force,” said Ak, smiling and licking his lips, eyeing his new fighter. “But, their true power can only be seen best when they are combined into the Ultimate Voldemort!”
“It won’t take long to beat you now with this guy,” added Malfoy. “Especially you, suicidal Granger.”
“The game’s not over just yet,” mumbled Harry, not feeling too sure of his own confidence. He waited for the table to deal him his card, wondering what he could possibly get that could help him now. When he saw what it was that he got, Harry was overjoyed.
“Voldemort may be strong,” said Harry, “but no matter how strong he gets, he’ll still  never  be  a  match  for…  Dumbledore!”  He  threw  the  hologram  on  the  table  and watched it appear, feeling a new source  of  hope inside him. With Dumbledore’s ability, the Ultimate Voldemort would be his and Hermione’s!
 
“How on Earth did you get a Dumbledore?” demanded Malfoy.
“Probably from Aylar,” said Ak.
“No way, I got mine the real way,” smirked Harry as he waited for the Ultimate
Voldemort to disappear and then reappear on their side, but it wasn’t happening.
“What are you waiting for?” asked Malfoy. “Take the rest of your turn!”
“I’m waiting for us to gain control of your Ultimate Voldemort,” said Harry.
“Why would that happen?” asked Ak.
“Because  of  Dumbledore’s  ability!”  said  Harry,  getting  a  little  upset.  “I  gain control of all my opponent’s fighters when he comes into play.”
“You idiot!” yelled Malfoy, scaring some of the kids around him. “What do you think the Constant Vigilance Potion does? It prevents any of our fighters from being taken control of! Dumbledore’s power is useless!”
“You’re kidding…” sighed Harry, their chances of winning going down the drain.
“Afraid not,” smiled Malfoy.
“Then I guess I’ll just use my last action to draw a card,” groaned Harry. He got a
Summoning Spell. Maybe he’d get something better next turn.
“I think I’ll just forgo my turn,” said Malfoy, “so that Ak can get this game over with by attacking with Ultimate Voldemort.”
“It’s not Ak’s turn yet,” said Hermione, getting her card. “And he’s not going to be able to attack with his Voldemort anyway, because I am stupefying him!”
“You’re just putting off the inevitable,” said Ak as the red beam hit the Ultimate
Voldemort. “Not it will just take one more turn to crush you.”
“And then  I’ll  use  a Disarming Spell  on  your  Constant  Vigilance  Potion,”  said Hermione  with a serious  look on her face. The red beam shot  out and hit the cauldron, shattering it into a million pieces before it disappeared.
“Come on let’s get this over with,” groaned Ak. “I’ll pass my turn like Malfoy.”
“And then  I’ll  start  mine,”  said  Harry,  getting  his  card,  another  Increase  Time Spell.  “First  I’ll play a Summoning Charm.” Harry watched the  five cards  that the  table dealt to him: another Hippogriff, another Increase Time Spell, and… three Dumbledores! Harry could have dropped dead right then. Three Dumbledores! What were the odds of that happening? Probably just about as good as getting four Dumbledores in the first place….
“Come on! Let’s go!” said Malfoy sounding anxious to get the game over with.
“I’m going to  start  off  by playing two Increase  Time Spells,” announced Harry, now having a total of three actions. “Then I will play three Dumbledores!”
“Three  Dumbledores!”  yelled  Malfoy  and Ak together.  Harry  watched  as  their eyes widened as the three Dumbledores appeared next to the one he already had out.
“And  now  since   you  don’t  have  the   Constant  Vigilance   Potion   anymore,” continued Harry, feeling  as  though he  was on  a winning streak, “I gain control  of  your Ultimate Voldemort too!”
“What are we going to do now, Ak?” asked Malfoy through clenched teeth as their Voldemort  disappeared  and then  reappeared  on  Harry  and Hermione’s  side,  now under their control.
“Don’t worry, something will turn up.”
“I don’t see how,” grinned Harry. “Your turn now, Malfoy.”
“I know,” he spat as he got his card. Malfoy’s face turned from being disgusted
 
and all scrunched up to  a grin. “For my first  action, I’ll play another  Imperius Spell, on good old Ultimate Voldemort.”
“Well, it was nice having him for a while,” said Harry as they lost their massive monster. “But at least we still have the four Dumbledores.”
“And now I’ll put out another Constant Vigilance Potion to stop anything like that from ever happening again,” said Malfoy, summoning another cauldron.
“Don’t worry,” said Hermione. “This battle won’t be long enough for us to try and steal that Ultimate Voldemort again. It’s going to be over very soon.”
“How so?”
“Because I’m going to use a Merging Spell on Harry’s four Dumbledores!”
Instead of four snakes coming out of the spell, four ghost-like spirits  did. They each grabbed a hold of a Dumbledore and flew together, forming the same giant blob. It wiggled  and  jiggled  and  flashed  colors,  then  grew  to  the  same  size  as  the  Ultimate Voldemort.  When the  blob turned into  the  regular form,  it  didn’t look  all too  different from what a normal Dumbledore  would. It didn’t have any extra limbs, it  was just much taller, and had a very bright glow all around him.
“And now I’ll use an Engorgio Charm on him, to make him even stronger!”
“Now our two fighters are evenly matched,” said Ak, beginning his turn.
“I don’t think so, Dumbledore will always be more powerful,” said Harry.
“So, to begin my turn, I’m going to attack with Ultimate Voldemort.”
“But if  you attack Ultimate Dumbledore, they’ll both be discarded,” said Harry.
“Both Ultimate Voldemort’s and Ultimate Dumbledore’s powers are equal.”
“That’s  why  I’m  not  attacking  him,”  said  Ak.  “I’m  going  to  attack  Hermione instead.”
“Oh no! That will practically beat her!” exclaimed Harry.
“Yeah, too bad it won’t beat her now. We‘ll actually have to wait another turn…” said Ak as Ultimate Voldemort attacked Hermione’s deck, and brought it down to only two cards. This was getting close; if only she hadn’t used those Maherius Curses on herself!
“I’m  going  to  begin  my  turn  by  attacking  the  Ultimate  Voldemort  with  my Ultimate  Dumbledore!”  said  Harry,  wanting  to  eliminate  the  threat  that  it  could  beat Hermione.
Dumbledore took out his wand from his pocket and pointed it at Voldemort who did the same. For a second, the two giant fighters faced each other, wands out and ready to go. Then, a moment later, they both shot the same black beam out of their wands at each other,  creating  a  massive,  holographic  explosion  that  filled  the  entire  table’s  surface. When it cleared, both fighters were down on the ground, and disappeared shortly after.
“Now we’re both fighter-less and even,” said Harry.
“Yeah, the only difference  is  that both of  the members  on our  team have more than two cards in their deck,” mocked Malfoy.
“Okay okay, I’ll  just  play a Hippogriff  and a house  elf,”  said  Harry  lazily, just wanting to get something out so that he couldn’t be attacked directly.
“And to  try and counter  that, I’ll play a Dementor  and a Boggart,” said Malfoy.
“All I have to do is wait a turn, attack with them, and Granger’s gone. We win, even without
Ultimate Voldemort!”
“Don’t get too cocky,” said Hermione, getting her card. “Because you never know
 
when the tables might turn on you.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yeah,” said Hermione sternly. “Because for my first action, I’m going to play an
Apparition Spell!”
“No!” yelled Malfoy and Ak together.
“What does that do?” asked Harry.
“It switched two player’s decks,” grinned Hermione. “And I’m going to switch my one  card  deck  with  Malfoy’s.”  The  two  decks  in  the  slots  for  Hermione  and  Malfoy disappeared in puffs of smoke and then reappear in opposite places. “Now for the finishing move! I’m going to use my final action to play a Maherius Curse on Malfoy, defeating him and beating his team!”
“No! That can’t be!” yelled  Ak and Malfoy  together,  in  disbelief  of  their  loss. Amidst a little cheering and pats on the back from the crowd, some holographic fireworks went off on Harry and Hermione’s side of the table and all the fighters and items on the surface of it disappeared.
“Nice going, Hermione,” grinned Harry, removing his deck from the table’s slot.
“So you were planning on doing that all along, by weakening yourself, eh?”
“Yep,” she smiled back.
“Well, good game Ak… Malfoy,” said Harry to his opponents. Ak bowed back to him, but Malfoy only gave him a look of pure venom, ripped his deck out of the slot, and stormed out of the room, pushing anyone who was in his way to the side.
“What’s  his  problem?”  asked  Ak,  the  people  around  the  table  beginning  to disperse.
“He really wanted to beat you, Harry,” said Ginny, walking up with her brother to the three of them. “That’s the whole reason he started playing Wizard Duel again, to get revenge on you.”
“I didn’t know you played, Ginny,” said Hermione.
“Yeah… it’s an okay game. In fact, I was the one who suggested using it to  get back at you, Harry.”
“Oh thanks, Ginny!” said Harry. “Kill our friendship even more.”
“Trust me,” she said, looking at Harry sharply. “You two’s friendship is about as killed as it can be right now. Besides, beating you in a little  Wizard Duel game is better than what he was suggesting: a nighttime assassination.”
“Well then, thank you Ginny,” said Harry as she started walking out of the room.
“And… one more thing.”
“Yeah?” she asked, turning around.
“Could you tell Malfoy that… I’m sorry?”
“Tell him you’re sorry?” she ask, scrunching her face up a little. “You’re sorry for leaving him to die…? Sure, I’ll try, but I’m not making any guarantees.”
“Thanks Ginny,” said Harry. If he could only try and get Malfoy back, there could be a chance that he couldn’t go totally over to Voldemort’s side. He was definitely very powerful, a little mentally unstable perhaps, but powerful, and would be a better ally than enemy. Harry shivered at the thought of going head to head with Malfoy in a death match, a real wizard duel.
“Good job there Harry!” came a familiar voice from behind. Harry turned around,
 
and saw Dumbledore standing there, smiling.
“Professor Dumbledore!” exclaimed Harry. “What are you doing here?”
“Oh well, I thought I might as well witness the final Wizard Duel match this year,” he smiled, “and I must say I am very happy that I decided to. It was a great match indeed, and I much enjoyed seeing myself take on that Ultimate Voldemort.”
“You are a fine card, professor,” grinned Harry.
“Why thank you, Harry. But, I’m afraid I must leave you now; it seems as though others are in need of your services more than I.”
“What?” asked Harry, a little  confused. Dumbledore  grinned and pointed a long finger behind Harry. He turned around and saw behind him at least fifty students of all ages and all houses, each standing there looking at him. For a second, they all were silent, then they all broke into talking at the same time.
“Can I have your autograph!?”
“Will you trade your Dumbledore!?”
“Can I look through your deck!?”
Harry just smiled and tried to make them all happy. He was a star, Malfoy was his enemy… things were back to the way they used to be.
 
Chapter 26- The Disastrous Duel

Harry  stayed  at  the  Great  Hall  for  several  hours,  trying  to  give  everyone  a personalized  card  of  their  choice,  talking  them  out  of  trading  his  Dumbledores,  and making them stop  exalting him as the greatest  player. Even Hermione  got a little  fame, though Harry noticed she left the room far earlier than he did.
It was well past midnight when Harry finally returned to his dormitory and woke up not too much later, having what felt like about a minute’s rest, ready to begin one of the hardest  days  of  his  life.  It  was  going  to  start  with  the  Dueling  Club’s  presentation  at breakfast and then go into the Quidditch Final that night.
“Man, Harry,” said Ron the next morning at breakfast. “You look… tired.”
“Yeah, all those fans of mine drove me crazy last night,” sighed Harry, collapsing into his chair at the Gryffindor table.
“I don’t  know why they  all  wanted your  autograph,” said  Ron,  returning  to  his food. “After all, it was Hermione who won the game.”
“Yeah, only about ten people  came to  me after  the match, but about five times more came to you,” whined Hermione.
“Well that’s because I was the one with the Dumbledores,” said Harry.
“But  it  wasn’t  even  you  that  merged  them  together  to  create  the  Ultimate
Dumbledore,” she continued. “I did that!”
“The kids don’t care about who did the merging,” said Harry lazily. “All they care about is who was controlling the fighter… and that was me.”
“Well that’s not very fair,” she moaned again.
“Shh!” said Ron. “Professor  Flitwick’s coming up to  the front of  the room. It’s almost time to begin the duel!”
“Oh no, not now…” sighed Harry. “I’m so tired….”
“Well you’d better wake up, because it’s time to duel.”
“Attention students! Attention!” announced Professor Flitwick. “Attention please! It is time for the Dueling Club to show off their skills to you all!”
It was easy to tell the members of the Dueling Club out of the rest of the students in the Hall. While everyone else  was clapping and cheering, their heads were held down low, too tired to fight.
“This will be one of the most interesting matches so far in the history of the club, as it will involve all of you in this room.”
“Will it, Harry?” asked Ron amongst excited talk from everyone in the Hall.
“This  was  mostly  his  idea,  not  mine,”  groaned  Harry.  “I  think  it’s  a  little…
excessive, but it’s what he wanted.”
“If you would,” continued Flitwick, “I would ask for all of you that are members of the Club to step up here next to me, and everyone else to just stand up where you are.”
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and the rest of the Dueling Club stood up and walked up to the head of the room, and looked out at the rest of the school, all standing up at attention to them, with slightly confused expressions, wondering how they could all participate in the duel.
“Now, don’t be startled,” said Professor  Flitwick, taking out his wand. “But you are all going to be encased in small, glass boxes and then float up to random points in the
 
air in this room.”
“What!?” yelled everyone at once.
“Glassium Boxius  Tutemae!” yelled  Flitwick. A thousand clear  ribbons  erupted out  of  the  tip of  his wand, flying through the  room,  touching each person, and forming four glass walls around them, putting everyone into small glass boxes, just as Professor Flitwick  had said.  It  was  quite  a  spectacular  sight,  seeing  all  of  them  rise  at  different points in the air, each containing a different person with a different expression on his or her face: excitement, terror, it was all good.
“Now, duelers,”  said  Professor  Flitwick,  getting  the  member’s  attention.  “In a moment, you are all going to be transported to the top of one of those boxes, where you will begin the duel. You may move by jumping from the top of one box to the other, but no flying.” He looked at Harry sharply with that last comment, as if it only applied to him… which it pretty much did. “As before, if you touch the ground, you lose. So, try not to fall.”
“Anything you say, professor,” grinned Malfoy. Harry wondered what he meant…
then it hit him. Malfoy could Apparate! He was going to be impossible to beat!”
“On the  count  of  three,  you will  all  be  transported  to  your  starting locations,” squeaked Flitwick, hovering in the air, getting ready to watch. “Good luck to you all, and I can’t wait to see who the victor shall be! Ready? Good. One… two… three! Go!”
This  time  there  was  no  moment  of  black  oblivion  around  Harry  as  he  was transported. All that happened was one second he was facing Professor  Flitwick and the next he was looking at him from almost  forty feet  in the air while standing on top of  a glass box that contained some first year student he had never really seen before.
“Hey there Harry!” he yelled to him from inside the clear box.
“How is it in there?”
“Oh, it’s nice… a little hard to breathe, but okay I suppose.”
Suddenly, a read beam shot by Harry’s shoulder and nearly shaved the top of his school robe. He looked over and saw Joe bouncing up and down on another box, happy that he had almost hit Harry.
“Sorry,” said Harry to the kid in the box below him, “but I’ve got to go fight now.”
“Ha ha!” squealed Joe. “Meh almost hit you!”
“Notice the almost in that sentence,” commented Harry, jumping to another box closer to Joe. It was quite hard for Harry, leaping from the top of one box to another, and trying to keep his balance too. The urge to transform his shoulders into wings to help stay stable was almost overwhelming.
“Meh is going to beat you Harry!” squeaked Joe, even though it seemed as though he was trying to back away from Harry rather than get closer  to him. He stopped on one box and fired another Stupefy at Harry, but missed as expected.
“You’d better  come  up with a new plan if  you want to  win,” said Harry, getting closer  to him with every second. Harry tried not to look down, he knew that the fear of seeing just how high up he really was would be enough to make him fall.
“You know what,” said Joe, in a new, deeper voice that was almost scary. “I think you’re  right. It is  time  for  a new plan.” With that, he turned around and started  leaping away on  top  of  the  boxes  with  much  more  confidence,  almost  as  if  he  were  floating through the air rather than jumping. There just wasn’t something right about it….
“Hey! Where are you going!” yelled Harry to him, trying to keep up. Harry pitied
 
the people he was stepping on, it must have been very annoying to have people constantly stepping on your head, even if it was beneath a thick layer of magical glass. It wasn’t too long before Harry caught up with Joe and grabbed his shoulder with his hand.
“Let  go  of  me!”  he  yelled  in  the  same,  horrible  voice  as  he  turned  his  head around. Harry almost jumped back in fear when he saw Joe’s eyes. They were all white, except for a few red veins at the bottom, as if they had rolled right back into his head. Then Harry finally understood  what was going on… it  was the  same  as before.  Joe  had been taken over by someone else!
“I said let go!” he yelled again, shoving Harry down onto the top of another box. He did it with such force that Harry slid off of the box and began falling down to the floor. Just as he realized that this was happening, Harry made a grab for the glass box and got a hold of the top, but just barely. He was holding on with all of his might, looking directly at the person in the box. Sadly, it was a Slytherin.
“Fall fall fall!” Harry heard the boy about his age inside the box yell as he tried to pull himself  back up. It took a minute, but Harry finally got back on top of  the box, and quickly looked at where Joe  was. He noticed that he was not alone, Mike was with him, and Chris was coming in too. The same person must have taken them over again, since the same strategy was being utilized, but who could be doing it?
Harry scanned the room for a sign of anyone that might be able to control all of them at once. Ernie was already in the loser’s  box and so  was Neville. But, Malfoy had already told Harry that those two were incapable of performing the curse anyways. Who else  could possibly be doing it? Suddenly, Harry saw who Chris, Mike, and Joe’s  target was: Hermione, the same as before. She was skipping along on the surface of some boxes, in the  opposite  direction  that they were  coming at her  in. If Harry didn’t do something quick, they would get her Bracelet.
“Why Hello, Harry,” came Malfoy’s voice from behind.
“I don’t have time  for  you right now, Malfoy,” seethed Harry, not even turning around, but running away from him as fast as he could. He could hear Malfoy’s footsteps behind him….
Then it suddenly hit him! Why hadn’t he thought of it before? Malfoy must be the one controlling them! He was certainly powerful enough, and knew enough Dark Magic. All this time, he must have just been on a mission from Voldemort. If he could just beat him, then he wouldn’t have to worry about beating the others… but he had to do it quickly!
“Stupefy!” yelled Harry, quickly spinning around and aiming right for Malfoy. He didn’t appear surprised or  shocked in the least. He merely ducked down and avoided the beam, grinning at Harry.
“You know what, Potter,” he said. “We both know that it’s going to probably come down to the two of us again… why don’t we just settle it here and now?”
“Sounds fine to me,” said Harry. This would go perfectly with his plan… as long as he defeated Malfoy quickly, and not the other way around. Going over every spell in his mind as fast as he could, Harry quickly selected a starting move.
“Porcini Magus!” he yelled, aiming straight at Malfoy. It was the same spell that Aylar   had  used   on   him   last   year,   and  now,  because   they   had  spent   all   year   in Transfiguration learning about transforming others, he could perform it.
The pinkish beam flew through the air, straight at Malfoy, aimed perfectly. It hit
 
him  right  in  the  chest,  making a  pink glow expand from  there  to  all  over  his  body.  It brought him down on all fours  and quickly shrunk him down to  the size of  a young pig. Once he was the correct  dimensions, the rest of the pig’s body became visible: first  the ears, then the curly tail, and the rest  was done almost instantly. Where Malfoy had been only moments before, there was now a cute little piglet.
“I think I win,” grinned Harry, amazed that he had beaten Malfoy so quickly.
“Not so fast!” came a voice in Harry’s head. It was the Animagus’ telepathic talk, and it wasn’t Ron or Hermione’s voice… it was Malfoy’s!
“What do you mean?” telepathed Harry back to  him. “You can’t fight! You’re a little pig now!”
To this, Malfoy merely laughed.
“Don’t you know that you can’t transform a Polymagus like that?” he said. “All I have to  do  now is  transform  back to  my human form!” The small  pig flashed a peachy color, and an instant later, Malfoy was back in his normal form, his arms folded and having a smug look on his face.
“You’re going to have to do better than that, Potter,” he grinned.
Harry was becoming impatient. This was not going along with his plan at all. He looked behind him quickly and saw that Joe, Mike, Chris, and now Akshay were only a few boxes away from Hermione. Malfoy could wait, he had to help her now!
Not  saying  anything  to  Malfoy,  Harry  spun  around  and  sprinted  off  in  her direction, leaping from box to box like stones on a river, not daring to look at the ground below, just keeping his eyes on the target. As fast as the four of them were, they were no match for Harry in his Gryffin form. He transformed everything except his head and the wings, looking like some sort of horrible freak, but still being able to outrun any human.
“Get away from her!” growled Harry to them, being only a few boxes away. The four of them turned their faces around and they were definitely a terrifying sight. All of them had their eyes rolled back in their heads, and were bearing sinister smiles of victory.
“You three get her!” commanded Joe, in his horrible voice. “I’ll take care of lion- boy over  here.”  Mike,  Chris  and Akshay continued heading in  for  Hermione  while  Joe took out his wand and aimed it right at Harry.
“Stupe-  AAAHHH!” he  yelled  as  Harry  suddenly leapt  from  where  he  was and pounced right on top of him, bringing him down onto a very large box, one that contained an especially large student. Harry pinned him down, grabbed his wand out of his hand with his teeth and then threw Joe  over the side of the box, making him fall all the way to the ground.  When  he  was  just  a  matter   of   inches  away  from  impact,  he  immediately disappeared and reappeared at the other end of the room, in a larger version of the glass boxes  that contained several students, all of  whom had been defeated. It was this  duel’s version of the loser’s area.
Now that he was out of the way, Harry turned his attention back to the other three, and saw that they were on the same box as Hermione now, but she was still oblivious to them. Chris was taking out his wand, ready to strike.
Having no time for anything else, Harry put all the strength he had into one leap. He brought his part-human, part-Gryffin body as far down as he could, as if charging it up, then let it loose into the air, flying over at least twenty boxes and almost fifty feet. Just as he was about to fall right on top of Akshay, Harry stopped right where he was in midair.
 
It was a very odd feeling, as if someone had just shut off all of the gravity in the room. But, just then, Harry realized that not everything else  in the room was standing still like he was, it was all moving in one direction. He wasn’t floating in midair, he was being sucked backwards!
“Ha ha ha, Harry!” laughed Malfoy again in Harry’s mind. “If you thought I was tough to beat in my human form… remember me as the Surmanger?”
Harry looked behind him and saw the same horrible beast that he had fought at the end of the first Dueling Club meeting of the year. Malfoy had once again turned into the Surmanger  and he  was sucking  up everything in  the  room  into  his  own mouths.  It  was almost a beautiful sight, seeing all the glass boxes swirling and dancing around him, and if Harry’s life hadn’t been at stake, he would have taken more time to enjoy it.
But, Harry remembered, there was more than his life at stake here. If Hermione’s Bracelet  was stolen, and Voldemort got it… well, Harry didn’t even want to  think about that. As Harry held on for  dear life  to a clear box that was one of the further ones away from Malfoy at the moment, he looked around for where she and the three controlled kids were. He saw that they were being sucked in as well and were spinning around just as much as he was. They had evidently stupefied Hermione, seeing as her eyes were closed and she was putting up no fight against their struggles to try and pry the Bracelet off of her arm. But, every time they got close  to her, the Surmanger would pull them in closer  to itself, and pull them away from her, making them part of the swirling junk that was being slowly eaten.
The  Surmanger  was  like  a  tornado,  sucking  in  everything  to  its  central  point, where  it  was  destroyed.  Harry  had  to  find  some  way  to  stop  them  from  getting  the Bracelet… but how? He couldn’t fly over to them, or else he’d be instantly transported to the loser’s bin. From there, he could do nothing but wait for them to win. Besides flying, there  was no other  way to  get  to  them. Before  Harry could do anything, he had to  beat Malfoy.
“Malfoy!”   he	yelled	to	him   in   his	mind.   “Why   are	you   doing   this!?”
“Because I want to win, you idiot!” he yelled back, the Surmanger’s body vibrating slightly with every syllable.
“I don’t mean why did you transform,” said Harry back, the thoughts in his minds almost  being  drowned  out  by  the  insanely  loud  howling  sound  of  Malfoy  sucking  in everything. “I mean why are you trying to get the Bracelet? Do you love Voldemort that much!?”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said back. “But I do know that in a matter of minutes, I will win this duel. The Surmanger is invincible! It devours all spells! Nothing can harm it!”
Malfoy was beyond reason. He was even more powerful than Harry thought, being able to  control  the three  of  them and hold his transformation at the same time. He was definitely not going to  win this battle  by talking, that was for  sure. He had to  fight. But what could he do? As much as Harry hated to admit it, Malfoy was right. He learned from their last duel together that the Surmanger was invincible to every spell.
“It has to  have some  weakness,” though Harry, trying to  remember  every spell he’d  ever  learned,  every  second  getting  closer  and  closer  to  one  of  Malfoy’s  many mouths. “But, the only way to beat it is… is by there is no way to beat it! The only way to
 
win is to be Malfoy, because he is going to win!”
For second, it was as if  a fuse  was going off  in Harry’s mind. There was a few seconds of sizzling, then an explosion. He figured out how he could do it! The only way to win was to become Malfoy… and that’s just what he would do!
“ANATA NARU!” Harry yelled as loud as he could. Harry remembered back to the beginning of the year, at his first Spell Invention class when Dumbledore was showing off  the  MMSC  of  one  of  his  new  spells,  the  spell  that  allows  you  and  one  other  to exchange bodies. Harry remembered that Dumbledore mentioned he had even made it an unavoidable spell, so not even the mighty Surmanger could defend against it.
A white flash filled the room for a second, then disappeared just as quickly. Then, everything  in  the  room  stopped  moving,  as  if  frozen  in  time.  But,  Harry  saw that  not everything had stopped; there was some smoke coming out of the Surmanger, as if it was a spirit of some sort. Harry looked up and saw that the same thing was happening to him. A gas-like  spirit  was flowing out of  each of  them and into  the other’s. Harry’s spirit  flew into Malfoy’s, and Malfoy’s flew into his.
The next thing Harry knew, he was on the ground, looking at every direction  at once, through dozens of eyes. It was horrible, being able to see above, below, left, right, back and front all at the same time. Harry tried to concentrate on being human again, what having only two eyes was like. An instant later, he was back in his floating human form… though not his, Malfoy’s.
Harry  looked  himself  over…  yes,  he  was  definitely  Malfoy.  The  spell  had worked! He  didn’t really  feel  any different,  though, just  a little  shorter  perhaps.  Harry looked up, and saw that everything in the room that had been swirling around him earlier was now quickly falling to the ground since the force  that had just been pulling on them stopped.  The  boxes,  members,  everything  was  collapsing.  Amongst  it  all,  Harry  saw… himself, only with Malfoy’s spirit inside of his. The transformation must have taken him by such  a surprise,  that  it  had knocked  him  out,  because  Harry  saw that  his  eyes  were closed.
“Wait  a  minute,”  said  Harry  out  loud,  in  Malfoy’s  voice.  It  was  odd  at  first, hearing a different voice come  out when you expected the one that you’re used to. But, Harry quickly got over it. “If I… er, Malfoy in my body touches the ground, I’ll lose! I’ve got to transform back!”
Harry mumbled the spell again, and the room flashed white. Time stopped for an instant and the gas-like sprits exchanged bodies again, returning to their original owners. Harry didn’t feel anything really during the transformation, just a small happiness that he was reuniting his original body and soul.
“Woah!” yelled Harry when he suddenly realized that he was back where he was and falling through the air. He quickly grabbed a hold a falling box, and climbed on top of it, though it would not provide much protection when he hit the ground. Just to  be sure, Harry looked down and saw that Malfoy’s unconscious  spirit  had been transferred  back into his original body and he fell to the ground, just like Harry was about to do, and was transported away.
The boxes and the people inside hit the floor with a fantastic crash that caused the entire room to shake as if there had been a massive earthquake. Even though none of the glass boxes broke, because they were magic, they still fell over and gave the people inside
 
them quite a scare.
“Now we can get  that Bracelet!” Harry heard Akshay yell  in the  same, horribly deep and scratchy voice that Joe had. Remembering why he had traded bodies with Malfoy for  that instant in the first  place, Harry reminded himself  that he had to stop them from stealing Hermione’s Bracelet.
Harry jumped off of the box he had stood on and then onto the floor, ready to run over  and help  her  out.  But,  just  as  his  feet  touched  the  hard  surface,  he  was  instantly transported over to the loser’s bin. Even though everything had fallen, it still didn’t change the rule that you couldn’t touch the ground.
“NO!” yelled Harry, pressing his face up against the glass wall of the loser’s area. After all that he had just overcome, he had been beaten by a single, stupid mistake. All he could do now was watch. Akshay, Mike and Chris were each jumping from fallen box to fallen box, working their way to Hermione’s body that was lying on top of a pile of glass boxes and other obstacles.
“I’ve got to get back out there!” Harry yelled to the others  in the room. He saw that everyone except for the four out in the playing field was in here now.
“No… you lost,” said Seamus.
“Yeah, once you lose, you can’t really go back out,” sighed Ginny.
“No, you don’t understand!” screamed Harry. “I have to get back out there!”
“Why?” asked Justin Finch-Fletchley.
Harry breathed hard. What could he say? He had to  stop three  students under a controlling curse from stealing Hermione’s magical Bracelet so that they can’t give it to Voldemort so he can’t control the universe? No… there was no way.
Harry returned to looking through the glass wall and out on the field. Chris was right at Hermione now and was summoning the Bracelet off of her arm. It flew through the air for  a second and then right into his hand. He grabbed his wand out of  his pocket and tapped the Bracelet with it, making it disappear into thin air.
Voldemort now had the Bracelet.
Harry  banged  his  head  and fists  against  the  wall,  almost  putting  a  crack  in  it, despite that fact that it was supposed to be indestructible. He saw that Chris, Akshay, and Mike each suddenly snapped out of their catatonic phases. Both Akshay and Mike fell off of their boxes from the shock and were teleported to the same room as Harry. Only Chris was left, and he was proclaimed the winner of the duel.
Harry banged his fist  on his forehead so  hard that he though he put a hole in it. Now, his Ring was all that stood between life  as they knew it  right now and Voldemort taking over the world.
 
Chapter 27- A Tried Tie

“I can’t believe it…” Harry said to himself quietly as the loser’s area was slowly lowered  to  the  ground by Professor  Flitwick.  “Voldemort  has  the  Watch  evidently,  he must  have somehow stolen  the  Stone  too,  and now he  has  the  Bracelet.  If  he  gets  the Glove from Dumbledore….”
“Let’s all give a hand to our new Dueling Club champion… Chris Zimmermann!” announced a beaming Professor  Flitwick as he made the  walls around the  loser’s  room disappear, and everyone filed out into the Hall. He was standing next to Chris and holding his arm in the air, like a referee would do with a boxing champion.
“I must  say,  Chris,”  he  continued,  “that  I  don’t  think  anyone  here  expected  a second year to win.”
“All I know is,” said Chris, looking a little confused, “is one second I was about to attack someone, and then the next I’m standing on top of  a pile of  magical glass boxes, being proclaimed the winner!”
“Ah yes,” sighed Professor Flitwick happily. “That’s what they all say. Time really flies when victory is at hand.”
Harry took  a deep breath. If only that were  the  truth… only he  knew what had really happened, Malfoy had taken control of him and the other lot of Gryffindor second years. Even though it seemed impossible now that he had shown his true colors in battle, Harry had to  try and bring Malfoy back to  his  side.  It was his only hope of  getting the Bracelet back.
“Why don’t we have the Dueling Club captain, Harry Potter, come on up here and give little Chris here some congratulations,” suggested Flitwick. “I have to go clean up this Hall anyway, hopefully no one in the boxes got too hurt.”
“Nice job, Chris,” said Harry, not really paying attention to him and scanning the room for Malfoy as he shook Chris’ hand.
“Thanks Harry,” he  said back, still  looking a little  dazed. “But I have to  say, it doesn’t really feel like I’ve won.”
“Yeah, that’s good,” said Harry, practically ignoring him and spotting Malfoy over Chris’  shoulder.  He  was  sitting  on  the  floor  behind  the  crowd  and  rubbing  his  head, probably  still  recovering  from  the  battle.  After  all,  it’s  not  every  day  that  you  switch bodies with someone.
“Excuse  me  Chris,”  said  Harry,  not  looking  at  him,  ducking  as  Flitwick  flew overhead, rapidly fixing up the Great Hall, and making the glass  boxes  around everyone disappear. A few other teachers filed in too, to help him out. “But I’ve got something to do.”
“Yeah, no problem Harry. I’ll see you down at the field in a little while.” Harry walked through the crowd, making his way to Malfoy, trying to decide what
emotion he should be feeling, and what expression he should be wearing. He didn’t want to sound angry, then Malfoy would never come back to his side. But, he didn’t want to sound too loving either, then Malfoy would just shove him off. When he finally got right in front of him, Harry just said the first thing that came to mind.
“Hello  Malfoy,” he said in his most  bland voice  possible.  Malfoy looked up at him from his seat on the floor, and took his hand off  of  his head. He stood up, brushed
 
himself off, put his hands to his side, and glared at Harry.
“What do you want?” he hissed.
“So…” Harry said, trying to come up with something, “at least I didn’t win, eh?”
“What do you want?” he demanded again.
“I want to know why you had those four second years steal Hermione’s Bracelet during the match,” said Harry coolly, trying his hardest not to sound nearly as angry as he was feeling.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” said Malfoy, not even looking at Harry and shaking his head. He was looking around the room, in search of something. “But I have to go see Ginny now, so… go away.”
“Wait! Malfoy!” Harry called after him as he walked away.
“LISTEN!” he seethed to Harry, turning around. “I don’t like you anymore Harry! I don’t want to talk to you, I don’t even want to be near you! So will you please… just… go away!?” He didn’t say anything else,  just  turned around, and pushed his way through the crowd, trying to find Ginny.
“Oh yeah?” Harry yelled to him, letting some of his anger come out, trying to get back at Malfoy, even though he knew he was not very good with comebacks. “Well… yeah, you… um… you don’t smell good! Yeah… you know it.”
Harry stormed away, appalled and fuming. Malfoy was his only hope of  getting the Bracelet back and now it was gone forever. What could he do?
“Hey Harry!” Ron called over to  him. “That was a fun match, are  you sure  you don’t want to take credit for coming up with it?”
“Go away Ron,” Harry said to him, not wanting to deal with anything right now.
“What’s your problem?” asked Ron. Harry sighed.
“Hermione’s Bracelet was stolen during the match.”
“Who took it?” Ron asked, lowering his voice slightly.
“Chris.”
“Chris?” questioned Ron. “Him? Well why don’t you just get it back from him!?”
“It’s too  late,” Harry moaned. “He somehow teleported  it  to  Voldemort  during that match.”
“But…” stuttered Ron. “Why?”
“It’s the  same  thing as in the  two previous duels,” said Harry lazily. “Someone else was controlling them, making them try and steal it for him or her. During a Dueling Club match is the perfect time to make a grab for it. You wouldn’t be able to tell dueling from robbery.”
“What are you talking about?” asked Ron, looking confused. “You mean they’ve tried to steal her Bracelet before?”
Harry could have hit himself in the head. But, it hurt enough from banging it on the glass walls, so he decided against it. He just realized that Ron had never been present at the times during the other duels when the second years had tried to steal Hermione’s Bracelet, and he had never bothered to tell him afterwards.
“Yeah,” said Harry, trying to make up for two duel’s worth of explanations. “Back when Malfoy was our friend, he told me that the curse used on them was a very advanced version of the Imperius Curse; a spell that only Voldemort and his close followers know.”
 
“So then we know who’s been doing it,” said Ron in an obvious tone  of  voice.
“Malfoy controlled them! Especially now.”
“I know…” said Harry, still not really wanting to believe it. “I tried to get him to come back to our side and give it back, but he’s not budging.”
“Well,  personally  I  don’t  really  blame  him,” said  Ron  quietly,  then  seeing  the look on Harry’s face, changed the subject. “I guess we’ll just have to  figure out another way to get it back.”
“Harry! Ron!” yelled Hermione suddenly, evidently out of her unconscious state. Harry looked over and saw Professor Flitwick leaning over her, he must have just finished bringing her back. Now that he had the chance, Harry looked around the rest of the room, and observed that the  Great  Hall  looked  brand new. All the  glass  boxes  were  gone  and everyone that had been inside  them were walking around, bearing different expressions: some terrified, some dazed, some beaming, and others will still hobbling around. It was a good thing Harry defeated Malfoy quickly, or else the room would have been in the same condition that it was after the first duel: dead.
“What is  it?” Ron asked, walking over  to  her.  Harry  followed  behind, knowing what she was going on about.
“My  Bracelet!”  she  exclaimed,  jumping  up  onto  her  feet  and  pointing  to  her empty wrist. “It’s… it’s gone!”
“We know…” sighed Harry, not wanting to think about it any longer. He decided just to give it all to Hermione at once. “During the match, Chris was being controlled and he stole it and then teleported it to Voldemort. There, that’s what happened.”
“But… I want it back…” she whimpered, staring directly at Harry.
“We’re trying,” said Ron, putting his arm around her.
“Well  we have to  try  harder!” she  said  sternly.  “We need  to  take  action!  Why don’t we tell Dumbledore, he’ll know what to do! I’m sure he can get it back.”
“That sounds like a good idea,” said Harry, wondering why he hadn’t thought of that. “We can go tell him now.” But, Harry began to think, what if Dumbledore then wanted his Ring? Since that is now the only item remaining for Voldemort to acquire besides the Glove, Dumbledore may want it to be more heavily protected. The thought of parting with the Ring was far more  than Harry could bear. Maybe they shouldn’t tell  Dumbledore… right now anyways.
“You  know  guys,”  said  Harry,  looking  at  his  Ring.  “Maybe  we  shouldn’t  tell
Dumbledore.”
“What!?” exclaimed Ron and Hermione together. “Why not?”
“Well,”  said  Harry,  looking  around  and  seeing  that  almost  everyone  else  had already left, probably heading down to the Quidditch field early to get a good seat for the final match. “You know, Dumbledore has done so much for us, and put up with so much… maybe it would be better to just not put yet another burden on him.”
“You’re talking crazy, Harry,” said Ron, looking at him questioningly.
“And besides,” Harry continued, now looking at his Ring. It was so  beautiful… almost  as much- no, just  as much as Cho. “We have to  go to  the Quidditch game soon, Ron, and we don’t want to be late for that.”
“I know what’s going on…” said Ron more  seriously than Harry had ever heard him  talk  before.  “That Ring has  taken you  over  somehow… just  like  that  curse  put  on
 
Chris. It’s not Harry Potter talking, it’s just the stupid Ring.”
“Now cool it you two…” said Hermione, though neither Harry or Ron heard her. They were both staring right at each other, with feelings of  hatred flowing through both that neither had ever experienced for the other ever before.
“Maybe you  should  give me  the  Ring!” yelled  Ron.  “At least  I wouldn’t put  it above the lives of everyone in the world!”
“Are you kidding!” yelled Harry back even louder. His mind was no longer his, the Ring had taken over. “With how poor you are, I’m sure you’d just sell it to the first person who offered you a Sickle for it!”
“Why you little!” screamed Ron, tearing his wand out of his pocket and aiming it right at Harry. “Stupefy!” he shouted, just as Harry took out his wand and yelled the same spell. The two red beams met in midair and exploded into a fiery blaze, blowing them both backwards.
“You’re going to pay for that!” yelled Harry, jumping back up onto his feet. “Oh wait, I forgot… you can’t!”
“APOYIOSI!”  screamed  Ron,  not  even  bothering  to  give  a  comeback.  Harry wasn’t ready for such a powerful spell from him. There was an invisible explosion at his feet, and Harry was sent flying backwards, until he hit the wall with a tremendous force.
“Hah!” yelled  Ron, with a horrible  look  of  pleasure  on  his  face.  “It looks  like there’s going to be another crack for Flitwick to fix up! Come on Harry, fall down! Let’s see if the hole you made is shaped like a lightning bolt, just look your hideous scar!”
Feeling more enraged than ever in his life, Harry exploded into his Gryffin form, and shot down at Ron like a missile. He went so fast, that when Harry collided with Ron, they  slid  all  the  way to  the  other  side  of  the  room  on  the  floor,  Ron’s body making a terrible squeaking sound all the way.
“Get ready to  eat claw, redhead boy!” telepathed Harry as he raised a paw with fully extended knife-like claws into the air, ready to bring it down on Ron’s terrified face. Just as he was about to begin slashing, Harry felt a force on his arm, preventing him from doing it.  Harry looked up, and saw that Hermione  had grabbed hold of  his  arm and was using all of her strength to keep him from using it.
“What the bloody hell do you think you’re doing!?” she demanded. Harry glared at her with his Gryffin face. She was stopping him from getting revenge, stopping him from finishing his prey, stopping him from… killing his best friend.
Harry  immediately  transformed  back  into  his  human  form  and  stood  up.  Ron jumped to his feet, brushed himself off, and faced Harry. Hermione stood in the middle between them with a look of appalled shock on her face.
“What do you two think you’re doing?” she asked again, this time, less forcefully.
“I was-” said Ron.
“Shut up!” interrupted  Hermione,  putting  her  hand up.  “There  is  absolutely  no excuse for what you two did! If it wasn’t for that Disguise Dance coming up, I’d take off serious points for what I just saw. To think, after all you two have been through together that you would even think about doing what you just did. If I hadn’t stepped in, Harry, you may have killed Ron!”
“I… I  know,” said  Harry  quietly,  feeling  his  sanity  being  regained,  as  well  as control over himself. “The Ring… it just, took me over there for a second.”
 
“Be that as it may,” continued Hermione, “you still need to learn how to control yourself. Even if you were under the Imperius Curse, I would expect that you two would care about each other enough to not even fight then. Now… just to affirm this, I want you two to shake hands.”
Knowing that Hermione’s wrath was definitely something to be feared, Harry and Ron walked up to each other and shook hands. Even with just that simple act, Harry could feel  almost  all of  the friendship that had been taken out of  them during the match flow back… though not entirely. What had come over them?
“Good,” she  said when they let  go, sounding satisfied. “Now, Harry, I think we should  go  see  Dumbledore.  It  is  the  best  course  of  action,  I’m  sure  that  you  have to agree.”
“I suppose  so…” said Harry, still  not really wanting to, despite  all that had just happened.
Suddenly,  the  doors  of  the  Great  Hall  were  thrown  open,  causing  a  massive crashing  noise  that  rivaled  what  he  and  Ron  were  making  earlier.  Through  the  doors, Akshay came running in looking quite excited.
“Harry!” he  yelled,  when  he  reached  the  three  of  them,  sounding a  bit  out  of
 
breath.






 


“What is it?”
“A package just came for you! It’s in the Gryffindor locker room!”
“What is it?” asked Ron.
“We don’t know,” said Akshay, gaining his breath back. “But it’s from Fred and
 
George Weasley.”
“It’s from Fred and George?” questioned Harry, wondering what they could have possibly sent him. Then, he realized that this could be a great alibi to not see Dumbledore right away. “Well, that settles it, we can’t see the headmaster now, he’ll have to wait.”
“I still  don’t think that sounds like too  good of  a plan,” said Ron, eyeing Harry curiously and suspiciously  all over. Evidently, he wasn’t as quick to  forgive about their little fight as Harry was. Though, he couldn’t blame him; Harry had said some pretty harsh things to him. “How about you and I, Harry, go down and see what you got, and then you, Hermione, go see Dumbledore and tell him what happened?”
“Alright,” agreed Hermione.
“Fine,” said Harry. At least he wouldn’t have to give up his Ring immediately.
“Okay then,” said Ron, looking a good deal happier. “Lead the way, Akshay!”
The  four  of  them  finally  exited  the  Great  Hall  and  went  their  separate  paths: Hermione  to  Dumbledore’s  office,   and  Harry,  Ron,  and  Akshay  to  the  Gryffindor Quidditch team’s room.  It wasn’t too  long before  they arrived there,  and Harry saw the entire  team  huddled  around  a  single  bench  with  a  present  on  it,  talking  excitedly  and pondering what it could possibly be.
“Hey! Harry’s finally here!” exclaimed Ak.
“Now he can open it!” said Joe.
“You  mean,  it  was  delivered  here  and  not  to  my  dormitory?”  asked  Harry, examining the long and thick package. It was wrapped up in brown paper and tied with a red ribbon and bow, just  like  a Muggle package would be. The only difference  was that the return  and  send  addresses  were  constantly  changing  colors  and  moving  all  around  the
 
package’s surface.
“Yeah,” said Mike. “Weird, huh?”
“Oh man,” said Harry, picking it up. “I pity the owl that had to bring this one in. It’s heavy!”
“Come on!” said Chris, bouncing up and down a little. “Open it already!”
“Don’t you get  cocky just  because  you won the  duel  today,” said Harry to  him sarcastically, trying to get into the happy mood all around him. “Alright already, I’ll open it up.”
Harry smiled and tore into the package, throwing the wrapping and ribbon into the air as a small child would at Christmas. Even though this  was certainly an odd time  and place to  receive a gift, Harry knew that since it was from Fred and George, it had to  be good. It took no time for Harry to finally reveal what was inside.
“Oh… my… god…” was all that Harry could say as he started wide-eyed at the treasure that lay before  him. The entire  team leaned in, oohing and aahing… just as lost for words as Harry was.
Fred and George had sent them six brand new Firebolts….
“Well  what  are  you  waiting  for?”  asked  Harry,  not  taking  his  eyes  off  of  the wonderful gift. It was as if the brooms were glowing, giving off an aura of greatness. “Take a broom everyone! One for each!”
There was a mad rush for  the Firebolts, as if there  wasn’t enough for  everyone. Ak, Chris, Mike, Akshay, Joe  and Ron each held onto  their  new brooms as if  they were small infants… small infants made of  pure gold and diamonds. For  one of  the first  few times  ever, the entire  Gryffindor  changing room  was silent; no one  said a word as they practically drooled all over their new weapons, with which they would smite Slytherin.
“Hey look, Harry!” said Ron, pointing to the torn open package. “There’s a note!” Harry quickly snatched the small piece of parchment and read it out loud:


Harry,

We told you that we’d make up for our lousy Christmas present to you, didn’t we? But seriously, we heard about your last match against Hufflepuff, and we don’t want that to happen again to  you! No more  losing allowed! Supplying your team with a new batch of Firebolts  is  the  only  way me  and George  figured  this  to  be  possible.  So,  with  a  little cheating on inventory here and there, and using a lot of Leprechaun’s Gold to fool Percy for  a little  while,  we managed to  scrape  up enough cash  to  get  them  for  you. Enjoy… though not so much that your life is perfect and you’ll never need to be cheered up by us again!

Don’t lose… please, Fred and George

“Wow,” said Harry after finishing the letter. That was all he could say, what else was there  to? Fred and George  had just spent an unimaginable sum of  money on him… what could you say to something like that?
“I guess business must be going pretty well for them if they can afford to buy us
 
these,” said Ron, still eyeing his broom.
“Yeah, and just  think of  how badly we’re  going to  crush  Slytherin  now. We’re indestructible!”
“Yeah!” yelled everyone together, looking at their brooms still.
“Well come on everyone!” exclaimed Harry, grabbing his own Firebolt from his locker. “Why don’t you go out now and test out your new brooms!”
“They’re ours…” said Mike to himself.
“Our own Firebolts…” said Ak.
“My own Firebolt…” said Akshay.
“Yeah yeah, that’s  great,” said Harry, looking at his  watch and seeing that they didn’t have much time before their game would begin. “But even though these new brooms are great, they could take a little getting used to. So, let’s all go out and test them.”
There  was  a  wild  rush  for  the  door  leading  to  the  Quidditch  Field.  Everyone wanted to be the first to fly on the new broom. They didn’t waste any time walking out the door; as soon as it was open, they all flew out into the air like planes taking off… though more like jets or rocket ships. Their speed was incredible!
Harry ran out after them, to see  how they were handling the new equipment and saw that he had been dead wrong in his previous statement. As he looked up, holding his hand over his eyes to block out the blinding summer sun, he saw his six teammates soaring through the  air  as  he  had never  seen  anyone  else  before.  They moved with such  grace, agility and speed, you would have thought them to be a professional team, not a bunch of second years. All of them were beautiful blurs in the air, appearing to teleport rather than fly.
Harry  let  them  fly  around  and  get  really  used  to  their  new  brooms  until  the stadium started to really fill up. He didn’t want anyone in the stands to tell Slytherin that the entire Gryffindor team was flying on Firebolts! Harry quickly called them all back into the changing room, where they all wore the same expression of bliss, and the same hairdo: blown backwards.
“Great job, team,” beamed Harry to them all. “Great job. I can’t wait to see how quickly we can beat Slytherin.”
“Oh come on!” grinned Ron. “Let’s not beat them too quickly… I want to let them suffer for a while.”
“Do  whatever  you  want,” smiled  Harry,  feeling  happier  than  he  had in  quite  a while. “Just remember, even though we have different brooms, we’re not a different team. I expect you all to still play as a team, but not just any team… the Gryffindor team!”
“Yeah!” cheered everyone, psyched up and ready to go.
“And here’s  the  Gryffindor  team!” Harry head Zabini  announce.  That was their signal to head on out to the Field. Not wanting to risk losing some of the team energy and spirit by saying anything else, Harry kept quiet as they walked out through the doors again, entering  a  stadium  full  of  cheers  and  applause.  Even  though  Harry  could  hear  the Slytherins  booing,  he  didn’t  care.  Watching  his  team  slice  through  the  air  like  flying knives was more than enough to beat them out.
“And what’s this?” Zabini asked. “It seems as though the entire Gryffindor team is flying on… no, it can’t be! They’re all on Firebolts!”
Now  the  applause  and  cheering  for  Gryffindor  far  outweighed  the  Slytherin’s
 
scorns. They knew that victory was at hand.
“And  now,”  continued  Zabini,  not  as  enthusiastically  as  he  usually  sounded, probably  being  hurt  by  the  fact  that  his  house  team  didn’t  stand  a  chance.  “Let’s  all welcome the Slytherin team.”
Even though they  were  going to  be  fighting a lost  match,  Harry had to  admire Slytherin’s spirit. Even after seeing that the entire opposing team was on superior brooms, they still cheered more loudly than any of the other houses booed, and the team flew out of their room with such energy and vigor, you’d think they were on Firebolts.
“And now will  the  captains,” continued Zabini, trying to  sound excited,  “Draco
Malfoy and Harry Potter, please shake hands while Madam Hooch brings out the balls.” Harry flew up to Malfoy very slowly and saw that he was doing the same. Malfoy
just glared at him straight in the eyes as they flew closer together. The closer they got, the more Harry could almost feel Malfoy’s hatred and anger radiating out of him. The two of them finally met in midair, but no hand shaking took place.
“Don’t  think  that  just  because  you’re  on  better  broom’s  you’ll  win,”  hissed
Malfoy coldly. “I learned that lesson back in the second year.”
“Come	on	Malfoy,”	sighed	Harry.	“Can’t	we	at	least	shake	hands?”
“Not until you show me.”
“Show you what?”
“Show me… that you’re sorry.”
“Sorry for what?” asked Harry, feeling like he was playing twenty questions.
“What do you think!?” demanded Malfoy. “For leaving me to die in that pyramid, you idiot! Once you show me that you are truly sorry for that, then… and only then, will I shake your hand.”
“But what can I do?” asked Harry. “What? Do you want me to  bleed for  you or something?”
“Use your brain,” suggested Malfoy, backing up. “For once in your life.” Before Harry could respond, Malfoy was too far away, back with the rest of his team. Harry just sighed, and backed up too, getting ready to begin the match.
“And now,”  announced  Zabini  in  a  much  more  energized  tone  of  voice,  “the Quidditch  Final  of  Slytherin  against  Gryffindor  will  begin  in…  three…  two…  one… NOW!”
Madam Hooch  let  loose  the  Quaffle,  and it  shot  up into  the  air,  signaling the beginning of the match. Before anyone blinked, before anyone took a breath, Akshay was already on the ball, with Joe and Mike not too far behind.
“And it’s Gryffindor in possession to begin the match,” continued Blaise, trying his best to sound unbiased, though it was hard to not detect a small hiss in his voice when he talked about Gryffindor doing well. “Those Firebolts are really helping out the team… you can tell because if they didn’t have them, Slytherin would have crushed them by now.” There  was  some  cheering  from  the  Slytherin  stands,  though  it  was  not  very confident. Harry wanted to go up there and beat Zabini with his broom for his stupidity and he probably could. With how well the rest of his team was playing, Harry was almost not
necessary, except to catch the Snitch towards the end.
“And Gryffindor scores, making the points stand at ten to nothing.”
“Nice job team!” yelled Harry, though he didn’t doubt for a second that couldn’t
 
hear him. At the speeds they were soaring at, Harry would be surprised if they could even see him much less understand what he was saying.
“Enjoying your new broom, Ron?” asked Harry, flying over to his friend that was doing a few laps around the Gryffindor goals. It’s not like he had anything much better to do; just  like  Harry, he  was becoming almost  obsolete.  The opposing team was so  busy dealing with the Chasers and Beaters, they couldn’t even think about trying to make their own goals!
“Oh man, Harry!” exclaimed Ron, beaming. “I don’t know how I ever flew on that old Cleansweep before.  This one  makes you feel  like  you’re not  even on a broom, just flying on your own power.”
“I know,” said Harry. “It’s great. I’ll have to thank Fred and George.”
“You can do that right after you step off the Hogwarts Express,” said Ron, doing one final lap around.
“How?”
“Remember Jamie?” asked Ron.
“How	could	I	forget?”
“Well, she’s been working with Hagrid for  the past few weeks, helping him perform his duties. While that’s been going on, I’ve been setting up a little reunion waiting outside on the platform. The entire family will be waiting there for her.”
“Wow Ron,” said Harry, amazed that his friend was able to arrange something like that.	“How	did	you	manage	to	get	everyone	there?”
“I just  told  them  all  individually to  come  there  and that I had something great  to  show him… or her. As long as none of them communicated with each other about it, I’m safe.”
“Won’t they all see each other when they arrive?”
“Yeah, but by then its too late and Jamie’s already there.”
“Sounds good,” said Harry, suddenly seeing a shimmer of gold at the far other end of the field. “And I’ll talk to you later about it… I’ve got to go end this match.”
“See  you!” called  Ron  to  him,  though his  words  were  quickly  drowned out  by Harry speeding away, becoming aware again at how great his Firebolt was by everyone else getting theirs and being so happy. Just as Zabini announced that the score was now twenty to  zero  in Gryffindor’s  favor, Harry could  actually see  the  Snitch…  and Malfoy  in hot pursuit of it!
“Oh no you don’t!” said Harry, zooming off in his direction. “Get away from my
 
Snitch!”

 


“I don’t see your name on it,” he said back, not looking at Harry, just at the Snitch
 
that he was slowly but surely getting closer to.
“I’ll tell you what,” said Harry, “how about I’ll let you get the Snitch if you give back Hermione’s Bracelet.”
“Are you still going on about that bloody Bracelet?” asked Malfoy exasperantly, sounding almost tired. “Listen… I didn’t take it from her.”
“Like I believe you,” said Harry. “You were the only one in that room with enough power and knowledge to take control of the four second years, and make them take it from her.”
“Even though I could do it, I wouldn’t,” said Malfoy back. “I may be a Death Eater, but I still don’t want Voldemort to be immortal. Him having that much power would make
 
us  all  useless,  and he  could  dispose  of  us  all.  No,  I’d rather  have him powerful…  yes, powerful but still mortal.”
“Then why are you a Death Eater anyway?” asked Harry, trying to delve a bit into Malfoy’s  life  and  maybe  figure  out  a  way to  become  friends  with  him  again.  Just  by talking, too, their bond was returning… not much, but some.
“Do you think I had any choice?” asked Malfoy, still not looking at Harry.
“What do you mean? Of course, you should have had a choice.”
“Well, if you consider death or being a Death Eater a choice, then yes, I did have one. But I was pushed into even that by… well, this isn’t the time or  place to  talk about this. Not during a match.”
“Oh come on Malfoy,” said Harry, hearing that his team had just gotten another ten points. “It’s times like this that are best for talking.”
“Well…” he said, still keep his eyes on the Snitch. “The only reason I’m a Death Eater is because of my dad. As you know, he’s even higher up in the hierarchy of  Death Eaters than I. Voldemort wants all of his Death Eater’s family members to of course join as well, so when I was born I was immediately signed up to become one.”
“But why did your dad become a Death Eater?”
“Didn’t you know?” asked Malfoy. “Though… I suppose not. Why would you?”
“Know what?”
“Voldemort is my grandfather.”
Harry  almost   fell   off   of   his  broom  right  there.   Voldemort   was  Malfoy’s grandfather? How could that be? Harry wondered if he should tell him that Voldemort was his grandfather as well….
“But,” stuttered Harry, “doesn’t that mean that you’re the heir of Slytherin?”
“Oh no,”  he  laughed.  “It’s  possible  to  remove  the  family  benefits  and disown somebody in your family magically. It strips them of all blood relation to you and leaves them with only your DNA. Basically, you are no longer related after using that spell.”
“But why did he do that?”
“That’s still a mystery,” he sighed.
Harry  swallowed. He  probably knew why Voldemort  used  that  spell  on  Lucius Malfoy. There can only be one heir, and he wanted it to be Lily so she could get James for him. Maybe, one day, Harry could tell him that.
“And there’s still one more thing…” said Malfoy quietly, just as Harry heard that the score was now forty to zero.
“What is it?” asked Harry, coming a little closer to him, the team getting another ten points.
“It’s…”
“Yeah?”
“It’s…”
“Yeah!?”
“It’s… that the Snitch is right behind you!”
“What?” said Harry, confused as Malfoy shot right passed and over him, chasing after  the Snitch that was not too  far away. “He was just  trying to  distract  me! Why that little….” Harry wasted no more time. He shot off right after Malfoy and quickly caught up with him, being on the superior broom.
 
While  he was riding alongside Malfoy at speeds  unimaginable, Harry looked at his arch rival. He saw so many things in those eyes… power, intelligence, cunning… but just as visible was hunger, a sadness. Despite all that Malfoy had, and was probably going to get in his life, they were all ill gotten gains. They all served the purpose of darkness and evil, and got man and wizardkind nowhere. If only there was something Harry could do to just… cheer him up.
Harry looked ahead, and saw the Snitch, no more than a few feet in front of them, keeping a good ways ahead of them, going just as fast. But, if Harry just slowed down a bit, Malfoy could easily speed ahead and grab it, winning the game and giving himself and the entire Slytherin house glory like they had never experienced in the past six years.
But, he thought again, Malfoy would certainly know that he backed out and let him win. That would bring the house glory, yes, but only take away what little Malfoy had left. If Harry wanted any hope of every being an ally with him again, he couldn’t let him win… but what could he do?
Then it hit him. Harry went over in his mind the numbers again, and it worked out. In their  first  match  against  Ravenclaw, Gryffindor  had won with one  hundred and sixty points. Then, in their match against Hufflepuff, they had lost with one hundred and forty points, giving them a total of three hundred points. Now, Slytherin had beaten Hufflepuff in  their  first  match  with  a  whopping  two  hundred  and  seventy  points,  and  creamed Ravenclaw  with  two  hundred  and  thirty,  giving  them  a  total  of  five  hundred.  Since Gryffindor now had fifty points, their team had a grand total of three hundred and fifty, so if Harry caught the Snitch, they would have five hundred… the same as Slytherin! There would be a tie! Harry, giving up his house’s and his own honor to give an equal amount to an enemy’s…  if  that  didn’t  make  Malfoy  finally  believe  that  Harry  was  sorry,  nothing would.
Harry instantly shot forward on his broom, beating Malfoy to  the Snitch. Harry was no more  than an inch away from it, his hand already going for  it when Zabini made another announcement.
“And Gryffindor scores another ten points.”
“NO!” yelled Harry. But, it was too late. His fingers were already clasped around the Snitch, and the game was over. Gryffindor had won, and Malfoy was now gone forever.
 
Chapter 28- The Costumes Come Off

“No!” yelled Harry again, though he could barely hear himself over the screaming from the crowd. “No! I didn’t want to catch it then! I don’t want to win! I don’t want to win! Malfoy… please.”
“Go away Potter,”  he  hissed,  flying  slowly  down to  the  rest  of  his  team.  “Go
 
away.”



 


“No! I wanted to tie! Malfoy… please listen!”
But all of Harry’s yelling was in vain. He was beckoned down to the ground by his
 
fellow teammates and they didn’t want to hear anything that Harry had to say about trying to tie. All they wanted to do was to march right up to the Gryffindor common room and party all night long.
“And  Gryffindor   wins,”   announced   Zabini   in   an   especially   monotone   and dispirited voice as Harry’s team carried him on their heads and shoulders all the way up to their room. “Final score: two hundred and ten to zero.”
Harry’s group grew as they went along, more and more Gryffindors were joining them, congratulating Harry on his quick catch of the Snitch, the expertise of the rest of his team, and asking where the Firebolts came from. But Harry didn’t want to hear any of it. He  wanted to  be  set  down and then  run off  to  the  Slytherin  common  room,  to  try  and explain to Malfoy what happened. With things they way they were right now, the Bracelet, along  with  the  other  Items,  were  Voldemort’s.  Not  only  did  that  mean  that  he  was dangerously close  to  completing the potion, but also  the last two Ingredients  he needed were at Hogwarts. The entire school was in trouble! They were all in danger of an attack!
“Let’s have another  three  cheers  for  our  awesome  Quidditch team!” announced
Joe Bob, the Head Boy, when they finally arrived at the common room. “Hip hip!”
“Hooray!” cheered everyone.
“Hip hip!”
“Hooray!”
“HIP HIP!”
“HOORAY!”
“Yes, that’s very nice,” said Harry, wanting to make a quick exit. “But you see-”
“Can we come in?” interrupted a few assorted Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw students, standing outside the open door to the common room. They had evidently followed them here, wanting to join in on the party.
“Absolutely not!” exclaimed Joe Bob, slamming the door in their faces.
“I think we should put up some more security than just that,” said Megan, the fifth year prefect.
“I believe you’re right,” grinned Joe Bob, taking out his wand. He pointed it at the door. “Exclusio Everyone!” The entire door flashed white and glowed a bright yellow for a moment until it returned back to its normal colors. “That ensure that no one else  comes in… or goes out for that matter.”
“Mandatory  party  all  night!”  screamed  about  half  of  the  people  in  the  room, suddenly bursting into a loud, crazy crowd of people. Large tables that were full of food appeared  out  of  nowhere.  Gryffindor  banners,  red  and gold  streamers  and sparkles  fell from the ceiling. Music  was coming from everywhere at once, resulting in some  of  the
 
loudest Harry had ever heard, and then, propped up on a very tall, marble pedestal in the middle  of  the  room  was  the  Quidditch  Cup that  someone  else  on  the  team  must  have brought up already. From that point on, Harry had no hope of talking to Malfoy.
“Oh no!” said Hermione in a worried tone of voice. “I was going to try and fit in some extra studying tonight! Exams are in a week!”
“I know,” sighed Harry, barely hearable above the intense  noise  going on in the room. “I was going to try and talk to Malfoy… but now there’s no hope of that happening.”
“Why would you want to do that?” she asked, the both of them slowly moving as far  away as  possible  from  the  crowd,  which  wasn’t very far  at  all  seeing  as  the  entire Gryffindor house was gathered there at once.
“He’s our only link to what’s going on with Voldemort,” whispered Harry, having to lean in so close just to be hearable that his lips were a matter of millimeters away from her ear. “If anyone could get your Bracelet  back, it’s him… especially since  he was the one who stole it in the first place.”
“Well then what are you waiting for!?” demanded Hermione, her eyes  widening and her tone getting more imperative at the mentioning of her Bracelet. “Go talk!”
“I can’t…” groaned Harry. “Remember? Joe Bob sealed the door shut. I’ll have to wait until tomorrow to  say even a word, and then I’ll have less  luck than now… and my luck is slim to none.”
“Well then just go to bed,” she suggested. “The sooner you do, the sooner you can get up and talk to him. Besides, you’ve had a long and hard day… the Dueling Club, then the Quidditch final; you need your rest.”
“That’s about the best thing I’ve heard all day,” said Harry, suddenly feeling quite sleepy. “And I’ve heard ‘You won the Quidditch Final.’”
The last thing Harry saw before  he trudged upstairs into his dormitory was Joe, wearing only his underwear and colorful drawings all over his body, swinging some sort of towel around his head from the top of the pedestal that the Cup was on, and then jumping off  into  the  crowd,  being  carried  from  person  to  person,  grunting  random  phrases unnecessarily loud. Harry just sighed and walked the rest of the way up to his room.
“What a day,” he sighed, his face collapsing into his pillow. “What a day….”

Despite  all of  Harry’s expectations, he did not make any progress  with Malfoy the next morning at breakfast. Harry attempted to walk over to the Slytherin table, but each time he did, Malfoy shot him the most horribly terrifying look imaginable, saying more than the words ever could, ‘If you dare even come close to me, I’ll kill you… no, torture you until you want me to kill you.’ Harry swallowed hard, returning to his seat, hoping that maybe another day would be better.
But that better day never came. Harry was so overcome by dozens of Gryffindors, constantly  begging him  to  give them  house  points  for  meaningless  tasks  such  as  “very white teeth”,  or “especially red tongue,” in hopes of winning the House Cup again, so that they could be in charge of the Disguise Dance. Whenever Harry did get the chance to look at Malfoy, he just turned away and walked faster in the opposite direction… things were not going very well at all.
However, the last week of school went on and everyone was trying as hard as they could to squeeze out every last point to their house that they could get, so that they would
 
be able to host the Disguise Dance. It was really sad, how prefects were constantly taking away points from other houses for just as stupid things as they were giving them away to their  own house. The point fluxuation was incredible, and Harry was really beginning to wish he hadn’t turned his second Quidditch match into a duel; they had lost so many points for doing that.
But, what was really turning the tide away from Gryffindor’s favor were the new Slytherins from Durmstrang. In every class, at least one of them was the first to put their hand in the air to answer a question, especially in Potions and Defense Against The Dark Arts.  Worst  of  all,  they always got  it  right! They were  really  starting to  show off  how much  Durmstrang  pays  attention  to  the  Dark  Arts,  and it  was  putting  Slytherin  greatly ahead of the other houses.
Amidst all of  that, though, preparation for  final exams was going on. Harry was cramming in every available moment he had, wanting to try and do as well this year as he did on the O.W.L.s last year. Expecting it to be a very hard exam, Harry spent nights in the library with Hermione (along with many other students), and sneaking off to the wNet as well to  get  a little  extra information. When it  actually came  time  for  the  tests,  though, Harry was fairly disappointed… they were quite easy!
The  Transfiguration  test  was  actually  fun.  To  pass,  all  they  had  to  do  was successfully transform  someone  into  the animal of  their  choice,  and then hold it  for  at least ten minutes. While Harry was sure Ron didn’t especially enjoy being a turtle, he was just as sure that watching him crawl around the room slowly, trying to reach a small puddle in the corner was great fun.
If  Harry  hadn’t  known better,  he  would  have though  that  the  Care  of  Magical Creature’s and Herbology’s exam were the same one. For Herbology’s, they had to  take care of a living clod of dirt for the entire class period, and whoever’s was above normal in how healthy it was at the end passed. Then, for Care of Magical Creatures, Hagrid brought in some living clods of dirt, and they had to take care of them for the entire class as well. Since  they  had  never  learned  about  living  dirt  in  Care  of  Magical  Creatures,  Hagrid assumed they knew nothing about them, and wanted them to draw on other knowledge of other  animals  to  figure  out  how  to  deal  with  them.  But,  since  everyone  had  them  in Herbology, in was an incredibly easy test, and everybody passed with flying colors, much to Hagrid’s dismay.
Charm’s test  was even better  than Transfiguration’s. For that one, everyone was sealed in a small room, with a holographic opponent. As long as you beat your opponent, you passed the test. It was simple enough for everyone to do, especially since most of the class was in the Dueling Club and knew good tactics, and that the opponent’s were about as fast as a doorknob and had the same amount of brains.
After  the exciting Charm’s exam, History of  Magic was a real downer. It was a boring old test: sit down and write in the answers. Even though it was long and boring, it was still no more difficult than the others, and Harry was overjoyed when the bell finally rang and class was over.
Defense  Against the  Dark Arts was a welcome  change from  History  of  Magic. Though  not  as  much  fun  as  Charm’s  or  Transfiguration’s  exams,  it  was  still  okay. Professor  Quirrell took them all up, one by one, and presented to them three choices of people. After giving a long description of each, he asked which one was most probably the
 
best to stay away from. It was very hard, all three choices were incredibly similar, except for a few things here and there. Harry had to really think before giving his answer, which happened to be correct.
Potions  was its  usual self  as  Professor  Snape gave them  double  kill:  a written exam, and a hands-on test. Harry had to rush through the way-too-long packet just so he would  have enough  time  to  be  able  to  start  the  hands-on  part  of  the  test.  Luckily,  he finished brewing his potion before the end of class, being beaten in speed by Hermione, and the new Slytherins… including Tci. Snape took this opportunity to give his house an extra ten points for each person, since they made their potions so fast and perfectly. Just because Snape was slightly nicer to Harry didn’t mean that he still didn’t favor his house.
Spell  Invention  was by far  the  hardest.  Professor  Dumbledore  gave them  each different spell’s MMSC, and they had to simplify it to as few lines of code as they could. It was very strenuous,  trying to  take  out  what you could, but leave in enough so  that it would work, and then going back and changing everything when you took out even a little bit. Harry was relieved when he passed his in and Dumbledore smiled, saying he did a fine job. He also asked Harry to come in a little closer, and he said to him that Hermione had told  him  that  the  Bracelet   had  been  stolen,  and  about  his  and  Ron’s  little   fight. Dumbledore  assured Harry that he believed the Ring would be in no safer  place than on Harry’s finger, and let  him keep it, as long as no more  fights took place. Harry thanked him profusely and left the class to go to his last exam: Divination.
“You told  Dumbledore  about mine and Ron’s fight?” Harry asked Hermione  as they left the class.
“Well… yeah,” she said. “I thought that he probably knew about it already, and not telling him would only make him want to take it away from you more, since you weren’t being honest. I’m sure he’d never want to see anything like that ever happen again.”
“He’s not the only one,” said Harry and Ron at the same time.
“Well I have to go to my Arithmancy final,” sighed Hermione when they came to a break in the hallway. “Wish me luck.”
“Good luck then,” said Harry.
“Aren’t you going to wish us luck with our Divination exam?” asked Ron.
“Are you kidding?” grunted Hermione. “A banana could probably pass that test.”
“A banana?” asked Ron and Harry together, walking to the Divination classroom.
“Why a banana? Why not a monkey, or a cat? Something… normal?”
“That’s  Hermione   for   you,”  said  Harry  when  they   reached   the   Divination classroom. “Definitely not normal.”
“That’s for sure,” said Ron as he and Harry climbed the ladder up and into it.
“Welcome students!” announced Professor Trelawney, floating about the room in a ghost-like manner. “I am very pleased to  see  you all here, not skipping out on the last exam of the day. I’m sure that you all will be happy you are here, for the test will be one that I’m sure you shall enjoy.”
“Yeah… I’m sure I’ll enjoy it, if in order to pass it I have to leave and never come back,” said Ron quietly.
“One by one,” she continued, not hearing Ron, “I will beckon you back into my room,  out  of  the  ear  and eye  range  of  everyone  else.  There,  you  shall  read  your  own fortune.”
 
“Read our own fortune?” squealed Lavender.
“How exciting!” squeaked Parvati.
“Indeed…” said Trelawney. “Now, since  I want you all to  have as much time  as you need, we will begin. Harry Potter! You are first.”
“Me?” asked Harry, pointing to himself and standing up.
“I don’t see any other Harry Potters, unless you count that extremely fuzzy man over there in the corner planting some lovely flowers.”
“Hey,  how  ya  doin’?”  said  the  man.  He  was  dressed  in  a  red  shirt  with  blue overalls that weren’t buttoned. He was indeed, very hairy, and he was planting flowers in a mound of dirt on the carpet. When did he arrive?
“Do you get it?” asked Professor Trelawney, looking as though she may explode.
“He’s hairy… and he’s a potter…. Harry Potter!”
“Yeah yeah…” sighed Harry amongst some scattered polite laughter. “Can we get on with the test, professor?”
“Oh, most certainly yes,” she said, opening up the curtain to her back room. “This
 
way!”

 


Harry took one last look at Ron who gave him a double thumbs up as he walked
 
through the curtain, and Professor  Trelawney let it fall back down, cutting off the small, dark room they were now currently in from the other. There was a single, small, square table in the room with two chairs at opposite ends. Harry assumed that was where he had to go, so he sat down in the closest chair.
“Good afternoon, Harry,” she said, sitting down in the other. “I have most  been looking forward to giving you your exam.”
“Why is that?”
“Don’t you remember?” she  asked. “Last year, my Advanced O.W.L. test?  You were the only one who passed it, and you did it with well over one thousand percent! You were amazing, a true Seer.”
“Yeah… I remember,” said Harry, slouching down in his chair and remembering how he had been able to predict the entire movie last year, only because he and Dudley had watched it so often.
“Now, I’d love  to  see  your  predicting  ability  in  some  more  action,”  she  said, sounding very excited and pulling out a deck of cards from her pocket. “So I want you to predict your future with these Wizard Duel cards.”
“Alright,”  said  Harry,  taking  the  deck  from  her  and  hoping  that  he  would remember how to do this properly. He didn’t want her to investigate what happened at last year’s test by a failure this time. But, since they had gone over how to do it correctly so many times in class, it wasn’t as hard as Harry thought it would.
“First,” said Harry, speaking out loud as he dealt the cards, “I’ll deal out the who, what, when, and where cards face-down.” Harry took the top four cards, and placed them upside down on the table next to each other, so that what they were was not visible. “Then, I place  out  the  why and how cards,  taken from  the  bottom  of  the  deck.” Harry quickly grabbed the bottom two cards, and slapped them down next to the other four.
“And now?”
“And now I flip over the who card,” said Harry, curious to know what his fortune was going to be. Even though he knew it was going to be wrong, it could be fun anyways.
 
He  just  hoped  he  remembered  the  hundreds  of  card  interpretations  that  they  learned. Running over in his mind everything he had learned in Divination during the year, Harry flipped over the first card and nearly fell over in shock.
“The who card is a… Harry Potter,” he said, amazed.
“Oh my,” said Professor Trelawney. “This really is a self prediction.”
“Yeah…” wondered Harry. So far, this reading was going fairly well.
“Now what do you do?”
“Oh… yeah,” he said, snapping back into reality. “Now, I flip over the what card.”
“Get on with it,” she said again, sounding very excited.
Harry turned it over, revealing the actual card. It was a werewolf. Now, what did a werewolf represent…? Oh yeah! That was one of  the easy ones. A werewolf card meant change.
“The who card is me,” said Harry, trying to recap everything, “and the what card is a werewolf, meaning change. So, am I going to change something?”
“You tell me,” said Trelawney. “It’s your final exam”
“Oh yeah,” sighed Harry, remembering where he was. For a Divination exam, this was getting fairly exciting. His  hand reached down to  the  when card and flipped it  over quickly. It turned out to be a Disarming Spell.
“And what does a Disarming Spell symbolize?” she asked, trying to test Harry.
“Quickly or soon,” said Harry. “Because it is usually one of the first spells used in battle, and one of the faster  beams, though not as fast as the Korosucide curse  which symbolizes  something happening within the  next few days, or  even within the  hour. So, since this is the when card, this event is not too far away from now, though not within the next week or so.”
“Very good,” she smiled. “And now the next one, the where card?” Harry quickly flipped the card over, revealing a house elf.
“A house elf?” said Harry.
“A house elf….” said Trelawney.
“It symbolizes the world, or people as a whole,” said Harry, digging back into his mind  for  the  information  she  had  given  them.  “Since  most  people  believe  in  their enslavement, it represents all of humanity.”
“So what have we got so far?”
“Well,” said Harry, getting ready to summarize everything up again, “the who card is me, the what card is a werewolf, the when card is a Disarming Spell, and then where card is a house elf. So, I am going to change… the world, not too long from now.”
“Now  let’s  see  just  how  and  why  you’re  going  to  do  this,”  said  professor Trelawney,  looking  very  excited,  more  so  than  Harry  had  ever  seen,  except  after  the Advanced O.W.L. exam last year.
“Alright,” said Harry, turning over the how card. It was Dumbledore.
“Dumbledore….”
“Dumbledore?” said Harry, wondering how this prediction was working out. “He’s my how card? All of this is going to happen with Dumbledore’s help?”
“The why card!” exclaimed  Professor  Trelawney. “The why! Come  now, flip  it over! Let’s see why all of this is going to happen!”
 
“Okay,” said Harry, almost feeling a bit nervous. His arm was shaking slightly as his hand made way for the final upside down card. He flipped it over and almost collapsed out of his chair.
“You-Know-Who…”  said  Professor  Trelawney,  staring  at  the  Voldemort  card that Harry just flipped over.
“It’s Voldemort!” exclaimed Harry.
“Ah!” yelled Trelawney, covering her ears. “Don’t say the name!”
“Sorry,”  said  Harry,  remembering  that  basically  everyone  except  for  himself, Ron, Hermione and Dumbledore was terrified of hearing Voldemort’s name.
“Well Harry? What does it all mean?”
“Okay,” he said, taking a deep breath before  he gave the final summary of  what was  on  the  table.  “I, taken  from  the  Harry  Potter  card,  am  going  to  change,  from  the werewolf,  the  world, as  symbolized  by the  house  elf,  not  too  far  from  now, which the Disarming Spell  represented. All of  this  will  happen because  of  Volde-  er,  You-Know- Who, and Dumbledore will help make it all happen. So with the help of Dumbledore, I am going to change the world because of Voldemort, and not too long from now.”
“Excellent job, Harry,” said Professor  Trelawney, beaming. “You have passed this exam with flying colors.”
“Thank you professor,” said Harry, shuffling all of the cards on the table back into the deck and then standing up, his mind spinning.
“Oh, and one last thing,” she said as Harry was about to leave the room.
“Yes?”
“Do tell me if the prediction comes true. If it does, then I believe you may have the true aura and talent of a real Seer, and qualify for some Advanced Divination classes.”
“Of course, Professor  Trelawney,” said Harry, grimacing at the thought of more Divination. “Though, if it does come true you should know since whatever it is will change the entire world.”
“We shall see…” she said, walking out with him to bring in the next student. “We shall certainly see. Oh, and by the way, you are free to leave now, Harry.”
“Thank you.”
“Ron Weasley!” she announced, stepping back into the main room with Harry. “It is now your turn.”
“How is it?” Ron as Harry as he walked up to the room Harry just exited from.
“Just  like  everything  else  in  Divination,”  said  Harry,  wanting to  throw  off  the prediction he just made. “Make it up and you’ll be fine.”
“Oh good,” said Ron as he entered the small room with Trelawney. Harry wished him  a  quiet  good  luck  and then  left  the  room,  wanting to  get  out  of  there  as  soon  as possible. That was the last time he’d have to  be in that room  for  an entire  year! Nice… very nice. With those  happy thought in mind, Harry slowly walked back to  the common room, taking his time, the entire year behind him. All that was left to do was to go to the Disguise Dance… and that was definitely not work!
After the very long and slow walk, Harry opened the door to the room, and was surprised to see  that there were actually quite a few people in there, running around and looking extremely worried. They were slamming into each other, yelling, ripping their hair out, and all red in the face.
 
“What is  it?” Harry asked the closest  one  he could find. It was one  of  the new Gryffindors, Trenholm, a first year. Their exams didn’t take as long as Harry’s, so it’s no wonder a lot of the lower class students were there.
“It’s Slytherin!” he exclaimed, looking even angrier  after  mentioning the name.
“They’re two hundred points ahead of us and there’s only a few minutes to go before the end of class and the decision of who is going to host the Disguise Dance will happen!”
“Hey Harry!” yelled  another  first  year,  walking over.  “You’re  a  prefect,  aren’t
 
you?”



 


“Yeah…”sighed Harry, seeing where this was going.
“Hurry!”   said	Trenholm.	“Give	us	two	hundred	points	for	something!”
 
“What!?” demanded Harry. “I can’t give you that many!”
“Why not?” asked the second one.
“The professors keep track of each house point addition and subtraction made. If I give or  take away too  much for  no good reason, I can have my prefect  title  taken away from me!”
“Well, then give us five points forty times!” he said again, sounding desperate.
“Do something!” ordered   yet another, walking over to Harry. “We’ve only got a few more minutes left until-”
“Attention  students!” came  Dumbledore’s  voice  out  of  every wall in the  entire school.  It was only the second time  in Harry’s life  that an announcement had ever been made like  that. “I am happy to  announce that the  finals  are  now officially  over, and the points for the houses stand as follows.”
“Oh no!” yelled everyone in the room except for Harry. “It’s too late!”
“In fourth place, with six hundred and five points, Ravenclaw. In third place with six hundred and ninety points, Gryffindor. In second place with seven hundred and forty five points, Hufflepuff. And, in first place, with eight hundred and ninety points, Slytherin. Congratulations Slytherin, you will be hosting the Disguise Dance tomorrow evening, and it shall be decorated in your colors. I am proud of you all for doing so well, and keep up the good work next year. Who knows when another Disguise Dance may pop up again. This is your headmaster, Dumbledore, over and out.”
“Oh man…” sighed Trenholm.
“I can’t believe we didn’t win!”
“The one year we actually had to win… we didn’t!”
“And third place… that’s the lowest ever!”
“Oh come on guys,” said Harry, trying to cheer them up, though he felt pretty low as well. “It’s not so bad. Think of it this way, now we don’t have to go through the trouble of setting up the dance.”
“Oh come  on Harry…” sighed another  one. “We may be younger than you, but we’re not stupid.”

It wasn’t too  much longer before  the rest  of  Gryffindor house came back from their exams, each wearing the same expression of gloom and depression. Everybody had expected  to  win no  problem,  just  like  the  past  five  years.  Losing  was  something  they weren’t prepared for, especially losing to Slytherin. It got even worse as some Slytherins flaunted their  victory, grinning at members  of  the  other  houses  as they made their  way
 
down to the Great Hall, to set up the Dance and make it however they wanted.
But, Harry got over it and tried to help everyone else in his dorm room too. Ak was quick to get over it as well, most of his friends were in Slytherin anyway, so with two people trying to help, Ron, Seamus and Dean were all in as high spirits as they would have been had Gryffindor won; especially when it came time to make the costumes. The five of them had great fun creating them all night long, and they came out looking very nice. It’s not as if they would have been able to spend so much time on them had they won, and had to help decorate the room instead.
Ron’s costume was very creepy looking. It was a black all over suit and pants with extra spider-like arms coming off  the sides. He also created a mask that looked exactly like  a  spider’s  head.  When  he  put  everything  on,  Ron  appeared  to  be  another  one  of Aragog’s offspring from the Forbidden Forest.
Harry’s disguise  was very nice,  and much more  complex. He created a centaur uniform, complete  with working hind legs. It took all of  the transfiguration and charms skills he had to create it, but it was worth it. As Harry walked around in it, Ron kept saying that he looked exactly like Firenze, a centaur from the Forbidden Forest  that they had met in their first year.
Ak’s costume was a little  disappointing. For all that Harry thought Ak knew, he showed no sign of it in his design. He created a full body suit that was gray all over. Then, after  he  slipped  that  on,  he  just  put  a  hockey  mask  on  over  his  head  and said  he  was finished. After a few good laughs, he said that he and some of his friends were going as the same costume, and when they stood together, it would appear as though they are all the same  person,  since  the  gray  costumes  would  blend  together.  Harry  just  shrugged,  and made his way downstairs with everyone else, to show off his disguise.

After a few hours of everyone gathering together in the common room, showing off  their  costumes, bragging about how easy they thought the exams were, and trying to cheer  each  other  up,  it  was  finally  time  for  the  actual  dance  to  begin.  All  at  once, everybody made their way down to the Great Hall, anxiously awaiting the time to enter and start the fun.
But, Harry didn’t much mind waiting. It gave him time  to  look  around and see students’ from other houses costumes. There were dementors, banshees, fairies, unicorns, ogres, trolls, ghosts, regular masks, and even some dressed up as other wizards. Hermione was wearing a neat Dumbledore  costume  that she  whipped up, and Harry wouldn’t have been able to  tell  that it  was her if  she  hadn’t specifically told him back at the common room. Harry was wondering if he’d be able to find Cho out of everybody else, or if anyone would be able to find their dates for that matter. It was going to be an interesting night, that was for sure.
Just then, before Harry could give it another thought, the doors to the Great Hall swung open, revealing the inside. He, along with the rest of the school, ran into the room, eager to see how it was decorated.
At first, Harry thought he had stepped into the wrong room. The entire Great Hall was pitch black, just as dark as the hallway at the pyramid. The only source  of  light was that coming in from  the  entrance  door,  and that was slowly closing behind the  massive group of students. When it was shut all the way, it was so dark, Harry couldn’t see his hand
 
if it was right in front of his eyes. What was going on?
Just then, in a blinding light of all the shades of green and silver colors, the Great Hall  exploded  into  a  massive,  illuminated  room.  Dozens  of  silver  and  green  colored, rotating spheres hung from the ceiling, spinning around and making the walls and floor of the room look like the Slytherin common room. Snake banners hung from every spot on the walls, and even the floor was painted the house’s colors. Despite the fact that it was a Slytherin-saturated  room,  it  was  still  an  awesome  sight,  and  made  only  better  by  the extremely  varied  costumes  that  everyone  was wearing, and the  food  that  was set  up at tables (that had green and silver with black snake tablecloths) all over.
A moment later, music began magically playing from every wall in the room and the dance officially began. Everyone started dancing in their own way to the beat, browsing what there was to eat, and talking with friends… or at least, who they thought were there friends. It was impossible to tell who was who!
“Hermione?  Is  that  you?”  Harry  asked  someone  near  him  in  a  Dumbledore costume.
“Yeah,  it’s  me,”  she  responded.  Then,  Harry  looked  down  and  saw  her  cat, Crookshanks rubbing up against her leg, purring.
“Oh  good,”  said  Harry,  a  bit  confused.  “But,  Hermione,  why  did  you  bring
Crookshanks?”
“Well, he simply wouldn’t stop giving me this terribly sad face  until I told him that he could come  along,” she  admitted with a small sigh. Then, turning to  her  cat  and seeing the happy look on his face, she brightened up.
“Have you seen Ron anywhere?”
“Well, no. But, I do know he’s dressed up as a spider.”
“Ron? A spider?” she said, sounding as if she didn’t believe him. “He’d better not look in a mirror or else he’s going to scream.”
“Have you seen Cho?”
“No…  I  haven’t  seen  her  yet,”  said  Hermione,  now  scanning  the  room  for  a spider. “But, I see Ron. Good luck finding her, Harry.”
“Thanks,” he said as she walked passed him, pushing her way through the intensely packed  room.  Harry  turned  his  attention  back  to  looking  for  Cho,  staring  at  everyone around him, as if peering into their soul and seeing if it matched Cho’s. Even though Harry didn’t see her right away, he did see someone in an incredibly realistic house elf suit.
“Hey, nice costume you’ve got there,” said Harry, eyeing the perfectly re-created skin, and the various, non-matching clothes all over. “But you’ve got it a little bit wrong… house elves don’t wear clothes.”
“But they is  wearing clothes  if  their  name is  Dobby,” it  squeaked, taking Harry back in surprise. This wasn’t a costume, it was a real elf!
“Dobby?” Harry asked. “Is that you?”
“Yes it is, sir.”
“What are you doing here?”
“All of the elves is having tonight off,” he squealed, not looking especially happy, though not sad either. It was quite a neutral attitude. “Some of  them is  still  not wanting freedom,  so  Dumbledore  is  giving  them  one  last  chance  to  be  able  to  changing  their minds.”
 
“So then who is going to clean up and supply new food and drinks?”
“The professors,” grinned Dobby slightly.
“Ah, I see,” said Harry. It was just like last year at Christmas. All the house elves were given time off, and the professors took their place. The only difference was that this year, Snape was back in the faculty.  Harry would give anything to see him in a chef’s hat and apron.
“What did I tell you, Dobby? I said nothing bad would happen to me if I returned to Hogwarts, and once again, I was right.”
“Oh Harry Potter…” he sighed, looking extremely sad. “If only I could say.”
“What? Say what?”
“I is  not saying!” he squeaked, sounding very serious. “Even though you is  very important to us elves, masters is even more important, and I isn’t betraying my master by telling! No, no, no! Bad Dobby! Not even thinking about that!”
“Calm down, Dobby,” said  Harry, trying to  stop  him  before  he  tried  to  punish himself again. “You don’t have a master anymore, remember? You’re a free elf.”
“Oh Harry Potter…” he sighed again, his eyes filled with tears. “I is still having a
 
master.”



 


“Who then? Who is your master?”
“Harry… is that you?” came a voice from behind. Harry turned around, and before
 
him stood  the  most  wondrous creature  he had ever seen  in his entire  life.  Before  even looking at her face, or any other part of her body for that matter, Harry could tell it was Cho, just by the aura she was putting out.
Her costume was absolutely stunning. It was a perfectly white dress that seemed to  flow like  water  as  she  swayed from  side  to  side.  Behind her  were  beautiful,  feather wings that extended out just enough to  make her look like an angel. She didn’t need the glowing halo  above  her  head,  or  the  small  golden  harp in  her  hand, or  even the  entire costume for that matter. Even without all that, she was even more wonderful than an angel.
“Y- yeah,” stuttered Harry, still enthralled by her beauty. “It’s… me.”
“Oh well good,” she smiled. “I wasn’t sure if you were the front or back end of the centaur. You did such a great job on your costume, it’s hard to tell that it’s you up front, and not one of the ones from the Forbidden Forest.”
“Oh, this?” said Harry, pointing to  his disguise. “Bah, this  little  centaur thing is nothing compared to yours. Cho… you look absolutely stunning.”
“Why thank you,” she  said,  beaming,  her  blinding, invisible  aura growing even brighter. “This is a very nice song they’re playing right now, want to join in and dance?”
“That would be  perfect,”  said Harry, grabbing Cho  by the  arms  and joining the massive crowd, swinging and swaying quickly to  the rhythm. This was easily one  of  the greatest nights of his life.

The Dance went on well into the night and then past midnight, but it didn’t matter to  Harry. To him, time was standing still  as he and Cho were together. It was wonderful being with her, and looking at the stupendous disguises that everyone was wearing. Harry had only  seen  the  tip  of  the  iceberg  before.  There  were  hundreds  of  other  students  in costume, and each was different.  It was very interesting to  see  what kinds of  costumes each person had chosen.
 
Harry saw that Ginny was dressed up as a broomstick and Malfoy was wearing a Snitch costume. The two of them were inseparable that night. Malfoy kept whispering into her ear, and Harry was dying to know what he was telling her. Was he asking her opinion on how to get some more revenge on Harry? Was he telling her where the Bracelet was? As  he  was  moving  around  with  Cho  on  the  dance  floor,  Harry  tried  to  steer  in  their direction, but every time they got closer, the two of them moved away just as fast, as if they  were  avoiding them…  which they  probably were.  Harry  just  hoped  Malfoy  wasn’t trying to turn Ginny against him.
“I’ll be right back, Harry,” said Cho after they had sat down at one of  the tables after an exceptionally fast-paced song. “I’m starving… you want me to get you something to eat too?”
“No thanks,” said Harry, feeling far too happy to eat. “Maybe later.”
Cho smiled and disappeared into the crowd, making her way to the opposite end of the room. Harry sighed deeply, and slouched down into his chair, looking at everyone else still keeping it up on the dance floor. How long was this party going to go on for?
“Finally,” said Malfoy, coming out of nowhere in the crowd right up in front of Harry. He  was standing next to  Ginny, who looked  as though she  was in tears.  “Finally you’re alone Potter. Come on, it’s time to go!”
“What are  you talking about?” spat Harry, standing up. “What have you done to
 
Ginny.”

 


“There’s no time to explain,” he said, waving his arms. “I’m not going to leave you
 
to die like you did with me; I’m better than that, I’m better than you. So, it’s time to leave! Now Potter!”
“I’m  not  going  anywhere  until  you  tell  me  why  Ginny’s  crying!”  said  Harry,
 
sternly.

 


“Attention  everyone!” said the  Head Boy, Joe  Bob, rising  up slightly  from  the
 
ground, just enough to be above the heads of everyone. He was dressed up as a king, with a crown, jewelry, a long, slowing cloak everything he needed to look superior to everyone else. “It’s now the time you’ve all been waiting for!”
“You idiot!” seethed Malfoy through clenched teeth. “Now it’s too late!”
“Everyone… take off your disguises, and see who you’ve been with!”
But, just then, all of the lights went out in the room, leaving it completely pitch black.  There  were  a  few  screams  of  surprise,  and  Harry  could  feel  people  scurrying around, trying to figure out what happened as they bumped into each other. Then, a hand grabbed hold of Harry’s arm and began pulling him through the crowd, as if he were some sort of plow, and the students in the room were snow.
“Come on, Potter!” said Malfoy. Evidently, he was the one pulling him.
“Where are you taking me!?” demanded Harry.
“Some place safe,” said Ginny, sounding as if  she was trying her hardest not to
 
cry.

 


“What are  you  talking  about?” asked  Harry.  “The lights  just  went  out!  It’s  not
 
anything that we have to run away from.”
“Just shut up, and go faster!” yelled Malfoy above the continuing screams from the people all around them. “We only have time to save one.”
“What do you mean?”
 
“He’d get  suspicious  if  we tried  to  sneak everybody out,  so  we can  only  save ourselves, and one other,” said Ginny, now sounding even sadder. “You are that one other.”
“Okay, will you please explain to me what’s going on!?” screamed Harry, wanting clarification of what was happening. He ripped Malfoy’s hand off of his arm, and hoped he was still standing in front of him, though he couldn’t tell since it was so dark. “Who’s ‘he’? Why would you want to sneak everyone out.
“Listen! There’s no time!” exclaimed Malfoy, sounding a little  worried. “You’ll understand everything in just a few… oh no! It’s time!”
“Time? Time for what?” asked Harry. But, he didn’t have to wait long to find out. Once again, in a blinding flash, the lights in the room  came back on, making everything visible once again, and a few sighs of relief were heard. Harry saw that Malfoy had pulled him quite a distance; they were now in front of the door that exited the room.
But, Harry’s attention quickly turned away from  the door  and up to  the ceiling. There, above everyone’s heads were seven figures. The six new Slytherins, with Ak in the center  of  the five and Tci next to  him, were hovering between two other  figures  on the side of their group. Those two were clad all in black, except for an extremely tiny slits in their masks for them to see through.
After  everybody stopped screaming, and realized that the  lights  were  back on, they all turned their heads up to the floating figures. The eight of them let out deep, almost terrifying laughs, laughs that made your blood  turn to  ice  and put a stop  on your brain. They  reached  their  hands  up  to  their  faces,  and  each  of  them  ripped  off  their  masks simultaneously, revealing who they were. But, they were not Hogwarts students.
They were Voldemort and his Death Eaters.
 
Chapter 29- The Terrifying Truth

At first, no one said anything. Though, what could you say when the master of evil reveals himself  alongside his minions at your school  dance? Everybody was frozen with shock. Even Harry, who had dealt with Voldemort multiple times before was speechless. This time, he wasn’t a harmless dream. He was real now… and in Hogwarts.
Then, what should  have been  excited  talk  and giggling that  the  person  you had been with all night really was or wasn’t your best friend or date was replaced by horrible screams of unimaginable terror. Everyone in the room thought that they were going to die and there was only one way to escape: run; and that’s just what they did. Everybody started running around and slamming into each other, in the end, getting nowhere.
“SILENCE!” thundered Voldemort, in his horrifying, deep, snake-like voice that echoed throughout the entire room. All the people that had been running now stopped in their  tracks, breathing hard, sweating, crying, whimpering and shaking. This was the first time almost all of them had ever actually seen Voldemort. “As long as a certain person in this room cooperates with me tonight, most of you will leave here alive.”
Harry looked up at Voldemort and his followers to his side. He was in the middle, Wormtail was on his right, another Death Eater next to him, three others Harry had never seen before  were on the left, at the far left  end was Neville and at the far right end was Ernie. Each of  them was wearing the same, almost  satanic smile  of  victory. So, all this year, the new Slytherins were really Death Eaters, and Tci was also a Death Eater… for two years! But, worst of all, Ak had really been Voldemort… all year long! And Harry had been  friends  with  him….  It  was  enough  to  make  him  sick  to  his  stomach.  Harry  just wanted to throw up, and then wake up tomorrow with this having never happened.
But, what Harry noticed most about Voldemort now was that he was wearing a few accessories. Around his neck was the Sorcerer’s Stone on a golden chain, and on his hand was the red Glove, the blue Watch… and the yellow Bracelet! So he did already have it! But,  how did  he  have the  Glove?  Harry  gave it  to  Dumbledore…  his  security  must  be terrible! Worse than Harry’s! The only thing Voldemort didn’t have was the Ring.
“Harry Potter!” he hissed, pointing a knife-like finger at Harry. “It is  up to  you whether the rest of the school lives or dies tonight.”
“How so?” asked Harry, trying to sound confident. All of the eyes in the school were  on  him, pleading to  do  whatever Voldemort  wanted him to  do. To make it  worse, since his was the only voice in the entire hall, it made him sound very small, and all alone.
“All you have to  do is  give me the Ring,” he continued, floating down from his high position right to where Harry was, with the rest of his followers. As they made their way down, the students parted to the side, not wanting to be the one to get in their way. He stopped right in front of Harry, barely even a foot  away. He gave a sickening smile. “Then, if you do, perhaps only a few of them will die… and you’ll even get to choose which.”
“What do  you  think  you’re  doing  here?”  demanded  Harry,  trying  to  buy some time. “You know that Dumbledore will be here any second, and then you will be dead!”
“Ahh, my little adversary,” he said, still grinning, “Dumbledore is now down in the kitchens along with all the other professors. By the time he knows I am here, it will be too late.  You  see,  for  every  dance  this  school  has  ever  had  for  the  past  six  years,  the chaperones have always included Death Eaters. However, I have conveniently told them all
 
to deny the invitation to chaperone this time, so that I may come. As for the other usual adults that come, they have been… disposed of.”
“What are you doing here?” demanded Harry again, shaking with hatred.
“Ah, that is a very interesting tale indeed. You see, Lord Voldemort always plans ahead… always. This plan began two years ago, it was originally another backup plan, just in case a different plan of mine failed. But, this one soon showed that it was superior over the other in simplicity, ease, and getting what I wanted. So, I killed the other plan and made this one my priority.”
“So then this was your backup plan,” said Harry, trying not to show his fear. “The one you were talking about last year… just around this same time.”
“Oh no!” laughed Voldemort, sounding like a bubbling lava pit. “My dear boy, you must not take me for a fool! An evil Lord, yes… but a fool, most certainly not! Ever since you were born I’ve had another plan ready to go, just in case my others fail. Even if this one does, which it most certainly will not, I will still get you.”
“So how did this plan begin two years ago?” asked Harry, trying his best to stall.
“That’s what you said, didn’t you?”
“Yes it  is,”  he  hissed,  glaring at  Harry,  as  if  seeing  through his  little  plan. “It began with my dear friend Sata Nick here to my right, or as you know him, Tci. He played a very important role  in this  wonderful plan. That night you tried to  steal Dumbledore’s phoenix was the same night Sata had to sneak into the headmaster’s office  and re-program the  Hogwart’s Quill  to  include us five on the  list  for  next year. Yes, you see,  at first  I thought my plan was in jeopardy when you saw Sata, but he was a resourceful man, and fed you a lie that you easily bought.”
“What’s the Hogwart’s Quill?” asked Harry, seeing an opportunity to  stall  even
 
more.

 


“My lord!” exclaimed Voldemort, looking shocked. “Do they teach you nothing
 
here   nowadays?  Back  in  my  day,  the  Hogwart’s  Quill  was  common  knowledge  to everyone! But, anyways, it  is  a magical quill of  course.  Every day, it  sends out a signal around the entire world that only magical children are sensitive to. It reads that they exist and then records their name. Then, once they reach the age of eleven, if they are still on the list, a letter  is sent to them, asking if they want to come to Hogwarts. So, unless me and my four associates’ names here were on that list, the plan would have failed long ago.”
“And what a shame that would have been,” mumbled Harry.
“Ah yes,” sighed Voldemort, “there have been many times that I thought this plan wasn’t going to work. I remember after the first Dueling Club meeting, how Sata sent me a report on what happened.”
“Why? What happened then?” asked Harry, trying to remember anything unusual that had happened during their first meeting last year.
“You mean you don’t remember?” questioned Dumbledore, raising his voice ever so slightly. “I would have thought that you would have remembered it very well, especially since it happened to you as well.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Remember  Priori  Incantatem?” he  asked,  grinning and leaning in  closer.  “The reason you escaped from me two years ago?”
Oh  yeah,  Harry  remembered  now.  Priori   Incantatem  was  a  rare  event  that
 
happened when two wizards dueled with their wands and the cores  inside the wands were from the exact same animal. In Harry and Voldemort’s case, it had been Fawkes. Both of their wands had a feather from him, and when they dueled two years ago, Priori Incantatem occurred. A golden beam connected the two wands, and every spell Voldemort  had ever cast came out in reverse order.
“Yeah, I remember that.”
“Well then, you should also remember that it happened during your first dueling club meeting.”
“What?” said Harry. “No way!”
“Oh yes…” he hissed. “In the duel between Tci and Aylar.”
Harry could have hit himself  in the head with his foot.  Of course! During their duel, the wand’s spells connected in midair and formed one long, golden beam They flew up into the air, and then there was a massive explosion. Harry had been so distracted by the explosion that he never thought to question why it had happened.
“Ah yes, now you remember…” he mumbled, turning to the side.
“But…” stuttered  Harry.  “Why would that  have jeopardized your  plan? I mean, even if  the  two  of  them  did share  the  same  wand core,  why would that  have made  me thought you were involved?”
“Ah, so  you do not know, then?” said Voldemort with a trace  of  pleasure in his voice. “You see, whenever a new Death Eater joins me, I cut off a bit of my flesh and add it to the core  of their wand. Not only does it make them more powerful, but it also prevents them from fighting with each other. Whenever they try to, Priori Incantatem happens, and negates their attacks.”
“I still don’t get it… why would that have been a threat to your plan?”
“Oh for god’s sake!” exclaimed Voldemort, shaking his head. “Can’t you put two and two together? If you had known that little fact, then you would have found out that both Tci and Aylar are Death Eaters!”
“What?” stammered Harry. “Aylar is a… Death Eater?”
“Well  of  course!” he  yelled, glaring at Harry, his  eyes  flaming. “What did you think? Someone that powerful has to be!”
“But… I thought he was Dumbledore’s son….” said Harry, looking around for any sign of  Aylar. He saw him standing right behind Voldemort,  wearing the  same  gray and hockey mask costume as the Slytherins were before they ripped them off. He walked up next to the other Death Eaters and removed his mask. Now, much more noticeable than it was when he wore his disguise was the giant grin he was bearing.
“Well,  more   or   less   he  is,”  said  Voldemort.   “Aylar  was  not   born  in  the
‘traditional’  method;  Dumbledore  is  too  old.  No,  he  was  created  using  very  advanced magic, stuff I am barely even able to perform, even at my advanced state. I combined my blood  with Dumbledore’s  and then implanted that into  a forced  volunteer  female  Death Eater. I can tell you, when he was born, Aylar already had the brain power of a first year, and now he knows more than most graduated students.”
“Dumbledore?” grunted Harry. “How did you get his blood? Did rob a blood bank or something? Or did you just get one of his old shaving blades?”
“I suppose you could say that…” he grinned. Harry was beginning to get worried now; the  conversation was dying down. If he didn’t think of  something quick, then they
 
would have to fight.
“So… I see that you have all the Legendary Items,” said Harry, instantly realizing that it was a mistake to say a second after he said it.
“Why yes, thank you for reminding me,” he grinned. “I have all of them… except for one. I’ll be needing your Ring now.”
“Why didn’t you just take the Glove when we were in the pyramid?” asked Harry extremely quickly, desperate to stall. “I mean, you could have killed us all then and gotten the Glove. No one else would have known the difference.”
“Ah yes,” said Voldemort, stopping his movement closer towards Harry. “That is a very good  question.  You see,  even though I could  have gotten  the  Glove,  it  wasn’t my greatest  priority  at  the  time.  The flooding  of  gas  in  the  pyramid  took  me  by surprise, completely ruined my plan for the pyramid. So, I had to play it safe and let you guys lead me out of  there. If I had killed you then, I would have been trapped inside the Pyramid, doomed to die along with it. That’s why I needed to save you from the werewolf guardian by using the Homorphus Charm. It was one of the hardest things for me to ever do, save your friend’s life. But, if you had found out later I had the power to perform the charm and then  didn’t, you would have questioned  me,  and that  was something I couldn’t take  the chance for.”
“After all, what’s the point of becoming immortal if you’re not alive to enjoy it?”
“Ah yes, and now it’s time to begin enjoying it!” exclaimed Voldemort, looking hungrily at Harry’s Ring. “Now, I’m going to make this as simple as possible, Harry. Either give me the Ring and a minimum amount of people will have to die tonight, or refuse and face the horrible consequences. What is your decision?”
Harry’s mind was racing? What should he do? Should he give Voldemort the Ring and  pray  for  a  miracle?  No!  Even  now,  the  thought  of  parting  with  the  Ring  was overwhelming, giving Harry a burst of weakness and painful sadness all over just from the thought. But, if he took the risk of not giving it to him, someone was going to pay, and it probably wasn’t going to even be Harry. But, if he gave it to him, all would be lost. So no, no matter what the consequences were going to be, Harry couldn’t give him the Ring.
“No way!” yelled Harry. “I’m not going to give it to you!”
“I was hoping you’d say that,” smiled Voldemort, saliva dripping through his teeth.
“It will make tonight so much more interesting.”
Still keeping his eyes on Harry, Voldemort reached his long arm into the crowd of students behind him and grabbed a random person. He wrapped his arm around the front of her neck, and brought her to his front. He pointed the tip of his wand to the top of her blonde-hair covered head, with his other hand and squeezed her neck tighter with his other, giving her  no  chance  of  escape.  Her  eyes  all  red  and her  cheeks  wet  from  crying, she struggled against his powerful grip, though it was all in vain.
“You let her go…” said Harry through cringed teeth. Even though he didn’t know who this pretty girl was, the last thing he wanted was for her to die. She had her whole life ahead of her, it was not supposed to end tonight.
“Now Harry,” said Voldemort, pressing his wand up against her head even more powerfully. “It will be up to you whether little… oh, were are my manners? Excuse me, little girl? What’s your name?”
“P- Prancy,” she stuttered, the tears from her closed eyes flowing down into her
 
mouth. Harry suddenly realized that this was Parvati and Padma’s little sister.
“Ah, Prancy,” said Voldemort. “Now, how old are you?”
“Twelve,” she said, bursting into tears again.
“Oh yes, what a fun age that is,” grinned Voldemort, now turning his head away from her and towards Harry. “So, Mr. Potter,  do you wand little  twelve year old Prancy here to live to be thirteen?”
“Let her go,” seethed Harry, fuming with anger. “This is between me and you.”
“I’m going to ask you one more time,” said Voldemort, sounding annoyed. “Are you going to give me the Ring?”
Harry looked at the ground, trying to go over his choices  in his head. He could risk an attack on him by grabbing the wand out of his pocket and then launching a surprise attack at Voldemort. But, then what? The worst Harry could do was knock out Voldemort, and then his Death Eaters would take over and kill everyone, not to mention get the Ring too. No, that was definitely not the best choice. Harry was stuck between a rock and a hard place and doomed no matter which choice he decided upon.
“Are you going to give it to me… Harry?” asked Voldemort in his nicest voice.
“No,” said Harry, keeping his head down, knowing he would not be able to bear the look in Prancy’s face if he saw it.
“Pity,” sighed Voldemort.  There  was a flash of  green  light, and a second later, Prancy’s body hit the ground, dead. There were shrieks and screams of horror and Harry looked at the ceiling, not wanting to gaze into Prancy’s lifeless eyes.
“Now why did you make me have to do that?” demanded Voldemort in his softest voice.  “You  do  know  I  am  going  to  get  the  Ring  no  matter  what,  so  the  same  final destination is going to be reached, but now, because of your idiotic decision, Prancy will not be there when it comes.”
“You’re… inhuman.”
“How very correct you are,” said Voldemort, taking it as a compliment. “How do you think I could be in this such advanced state of being if I were still human.”
“Some call it advanced… others call it pathetic.”
“So, you think I am pathetic?” hissed Voldemort, looking very annoyed. “Well, let me show you just how pathetic I really am! PLUSIUS AVADA KEDAVRA!”
It was the most  horrifying sight Harry had ever seen. Voldemort turned around, and shot out of his wand some sort of horrible, black spray that killed whoever it came in contact with. He blasted the entire front row of students, making dozens of students give off one final scream before their lifeless bodes hit the ground.
“STOP!” Harry screamed. “STOP NOW!”
“Excellent…” seethed  Voldemort,  stopping his  slaughter  and turning around to meet  Harry  face  to  face  again.  Behind  him,  Harry  saw friends,  family,  boyfriends  and girlfriends rush toward the recently killed. They bent over them, not knowing how to deal with what happened. Some cried into their bodies, others just hung their over them, pale with blank expressions, unable to comprehend what just happened.
“You’re not even inhuman…” hissed Harry, filled with so much rage, anger, and hatred that he was shaking all over, the hairs were standing up all over his body. “Being inhuman is something far too advanced for you.”
“Are you going to  give me the Ring now?” asked Voldemort, crossing his arms
 
and completely ignoring Harry and all the people behind him.
“Go to Hell you freak…” spat Harry.
“That is it!” yelled Voldemort, finally losing his very short temper. “I am tired of waiting for immortality!”
He ran towards Harry and picked him up by the arm. Tearing his way through the crowd, and stepping on top of the corpses, he stomped towards one of the food tables and slammed Harry down on the floor  next to it with such force  that all the bowls, cups and plates flew into the air and then crashed down on the floor next to him. Voldemort’s eyes practically  giving  off  heat  from  the  amount  of  fire  glowing  inside  them,  he  slammed Harry’s hand with the Ring on it down on the table and held it there so hard that it began to go numb.
“Say goodbye to your Ring, as well as your hand!” yelled Voldemort, bringing his wand up over his head with the hand that wasn’t holding Harry’s arm down. “Excallibus!” The massive and scarily sharp sword erupted out of the tip of his wand, shining in the light from the room. He was going to cut Harry’s hand off!
Suddenly, just  when Voldemort  was about to  bring the  sword down on  Harry’s hand, a deafening alarm went off,  like  a Muggle  school’s  fire  alarm, only about twenty times louder. Voldemort dropped the sword and let go of Harry’s hand to cover his ears, and everyone  else  in  the  room  did the  same,  including Harry. Where  was that horrible alarm coming from?
Then Harry saw it:  all the  way at the  other  end of  the room, where  he had just been, right next to the exit door of the Great Hall was a small box that turned the school alarm on and off,  and next to  that was a very scared looking Joe.  He  had turned on the alarm!
“Siragus!” yelled  Voldemort  as  loud as  he  could,  which was not  even hearable above  the  insanely  loud  alarm.  Right  where  Joe  was,  there  was  an  intense  explosion, destroying the alarm and sending him flying into the air and landing face-first on the hard floor. He was either unconscious… or dead.
“That idiotic  child!”  screamed  Voldemort,  looking  furious.  “Now Dumbledore will be here any second!”
Voldemort could not have been more right. Not even a moment later, the doors to the Great Hall flew open and in flew Dumbledore, still in his slightly burnt cooking outfit. There were a few shrieks of happiness in the crowd, though not many, and Harry couldn’t help but crack a smile when he saw him soaring over the heads of everyone, landing right in front of Voldemort and Harry
“And just  what do  you think you’re  doing?” demanded Dumbledore,  looking at Voldemort with such power in his eyes and face that he looked fifty years younger. Harry had never seen him so furious, nor had he ever seen Voldemort look scared. Dumbledore ripped his wand out of his pocket and pointed it right at him, looking not very merciful.
“But- but master!” exclaimed Voldemort,  dropping to  his  knees  and putting his hands out to his sides. “I was just… I was just….”
“Silence!” yelled Dumbledore, fire practically come out of his mouth. “You have defied me for the last time! I simply cannot believe that you would betray me and try to get the Ring for yourself!”
Harry’s mind suddenly deflated. What was going on? What did Voldemort mean
 
by ‘master’? What was Dumbledore  talking about: Voldemort  defying him? Wanting the
Ring for himself? What was going on!?
“Excuse me… professor?” asked Harry, in a very confused voice. “W- what does
Voldemort mean by… master?”
“Oh Harry…” sighed Dumbledore, putting his wand down and letting Voldemort tremble for a little while. “I am very sorry. Very, very sorry indeed.”
“Sorry? Sorry for what?”
“I am sorry for leading such a bright and talented young wizard like you down the wrong path.”
“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, beginning to feel a little worried.
“Oh Harry,” he sighed again, most of the ferocity gone from his face. He looked at Harry, with such a sad face, it almost hurt Harry to look at him. “Oh Harry… you see, it’s always been this way.”
“What has?”
“You see, Harry… I am Voldemort’s master.”
 
Chapter 30- The Truth Gets Worse

It was as if he had used the Cruciatus Curse on Harry’s very soul. Harry quickly felt  his  entire  body  freeze,  go  numb,  and  then  start  to  twitch  from  the  overwhelming amount  of  emotions  that  were  running  through  him  right  now. Those  words  alone  had more  power  than  Voldemort’s  Avada  Kedavra  curse,  and  were  infinitely  times  more painful. How could it be possible…? It wasn’t! There was no way!
“Th- that’s impossible,” stuttered Harry after a few moments of nervous silence throughout the entire room. “Th- there’s n- no way that your h- his master… there’s just… no way that can be p- possible.”
“I can assure you that it is,” said Dumbledore, losing his sympathetic voice and turning into a much deeper, stern, and terrifying voice. “I have been his master ever since he  began rising to  power.  But, no  matter  what has happened from  that point  on,  I have always been greater than he.”
“Ha ha ha…” laughed  Harry,  trying  to  believe  that  this  was just  some  sort  of horrible joke. “You really got me this time Dumbledore…. Ha ha ha….”
“This is no joke.”
“B- but…”  stuttered  Harry  again, still  feeling  as  though he  were  in  a  state  of complete  shock. “You can’t be his master,  there’s  no way. You two are supposed to  be sworn enemies, not part of the same team. He’s pure evil and you… you’re the complete opposite. You’re the greatest wizard in the world.”
“I know,” said Dumbledore, his tone now almost exactly like Voldemort’s, though without the distinct hiss. “It has been very tough, trying to lead a perfect life. By far the hardest thing I have ever done. Sometimes, I must even go out of my way, or take away a little from my cause just to show even more to the world that I am good.”
“But… why?” asked Harry, almost feeling as though he were going to burst into tears. Dumbledore, the man whom he had regarded almost as a father, a great man and a powerful wizard was really no more than a common thief or murderer. The only difference was that Dumbledore commanded Voldemort to do it for him, instead of actually doing it himself. It was too horrible to even think of.
“Oh,  Harry…”  he  sighed,  still  in  the  new  voice.  “You  are  far  too  young  to understand. I have experienced things that you are probably unable to even imagine. Things at both end of the spectrum: good, bad and everything in between.”
“And?” said Harry, finding himself unable to say anymore than that one word.
“Well, Harry, despite what you may be thinking right now, I am not evil. In fact, the real me is little different from the one you know.”
“I… doubt… that…” breathed Harry, still trying to overcome the serious blow his mind and spirit had taken. Just saying more than one word was almost exhausting.
“No,  it’s  really  true.  You  see,  the  only  difference  between  the  Dumbledore before  you  now,  and  the  one  Hermione  came  to  see  just  a  few  days  ago  is  a  single principle. The ends justify the means, Harry. They really do.”
“Oh yeah, and… that’s not… evil at all.”
“Not  when the  ends  are  so  glorious  and wonderful  that  bliss  beyond a perfect utopia would inhabit the soul of every person on the planet!” he exclaimed, sounding quite serious, and almost a little angry. “Harry, like I said before, you still have so much left to
 
see… you have not seen what I have yet.”
“And what… is it that… you see?”
“It is not what I see,” said Dumbledore, raising his pitch slightly. “It is what I have seen, and what you shall hopefully not see  someday. Harry, years and years ago, before even Tom Riddle’s father  or  mother  was born, back when I was a young lad, if  you can believe that, I was given a chance. A chance to see the world as it would be in two possible scenarios:  one  of  the  future  as  it  will  be  if  things  continue  as  they  are,  and another  if someone intervenes. The first glimpse I got was of Earth, not too far from now. Muggles and wizards were at constant war with each other, and the casualties are overwhelming on either side, both refusing to surrender until the other has been annihilated.
“I looked even further into the future in that timeline, and I saw Earth… dead. The planet was literally dead. It was no more than yet another rock revolving around the Sun, lifeless, gray, and never to support life ever again.
“Then, I gazed into a different timeline. This one is based on if someone was to change  the  future  for  the  better,  and the  difference  was amazing. There  were  no  more wizards and Muggles, there was only one race, with the benefits of each. Everybody lived in perfect and never ending happiness, living for the benefits of enjoying life, not for their own personal pleasures.
“In this timeline, I looked even further yet. The production was astounding. Every planet in the solar system was colonized and everywhere the people were spreading their peaceful  messages  to  alien  worlds,  forever  expanding  their  wonderful  utopian  empire, making the lives of everyone they came in contact with in the entire universe better.”
Dumbledore  stopped for  a moment and took a deep breath, as if  trying his best not to cry. He looked overcome with anticipation for the future, but it all meant nothing to Harry. All that mattered was the Dumbledore  was with Voldemort, and he was no better than any other Death Eater.
“Now, Harry,  do  you  know  how  the  second  of  these  two  timelines  would  be achieved?”
“No,” said Harry firmly.
“Well, neither did I,” said Dumbledore, pulling a chair out from the blank-faced and gaping-mouthed  crowd. He  spun it  around and sat  down on  it,  facing  Harry.  “So, I asked the person who allowed me to take this wonderful glance at the future, and do you know what he told me?”
“No,” said Harry again, his mind still trying to collect itself.
“Well,  he  told  me  that in  the  second  timeline,  an all  powerful  being made the people  of  Earth  act  that  way, living in  a society  based  on  peace  and love.  Without  his influence,  there  would have never  been  the  second  timeline,  and the  first,  and far  less appealing one, would have come true. Now, one last question Harry, do you know who the person told me the divine force was?”
“I can only guess….”
“It was me, Harry,” said Dumbledore, smiling and pointing to  his chest.  “It was me….  Imagine,  being  able  to  know  that  you  are  going  to  one  day  be  responsible  for changing the  course  of  life  on  Earth from  ultimate  annihilation  to  universal  utopia? At first, understandably, I was a trifle overwhelmed. But, as the years went by, I became more aware of my mission in life and took it by the horns, wanting it to happen no matter what.”
 
“So why didn’t you just  tell  the people  that?” asked Harry, trying to  understand exactly what was going on here. “Why did you have to take the violent and terrifying path? Why make Voldemort your ally when you could have done it yourself?”
“Oh Harry… I tried to spread my message peacefully,” sighed Dumbledore, “but it didn’t work! People are stupid like that… they respond perfectly to acts of terror, but are deaf when it comes to messages of peace. Finally realizing that, I took up Voldemort as  my  ally  when  he  was  still  a  student  at  school,  realizing  his  potential.  He  caused disasters,  I cleaned them up, and my power grew to  where I am today. Yes, had it never been for Voldemort, I would probably still be teaching Transfiguration now, though I may have left long ago, or even died. Who knows and who wants to? That’s what I have to say.”
“So your entire life,” said Harry, the gears moving in his brain again, “you’ve done nothing but acts that would get you closer towards your goal of become all powerful.”
“Well, more or less. As I said earlier, putting on a face for the public that my only goal is  to  keep Hogwarts peaceful, I have had to  perform  many acts  that subtract  some from my final goal, but firm the public’s belief in me. As I can see by your and everyone else  in this room’s expressions, I did a very good job of  hiding my true goal. However, sometimes,  I do  get  lucky and a  few of  my intentions  that  were  really  to  enhance  my power are interpreted as acts of kindness.”
“Such as?” asked Harry, trying to shake off  some of his shock. Even though the one  person  he  thought would always be  on  the  side  of  good  was now showing his  true colors  as Voldemort’s master, he still had to try to think logically. If something bad was going to happen, he wanted to be ready.
“Oh, well  the  best  one  is  my love  of  Muggle-borns,”  said  Dumbledore.  Harry tried not to look at his eyes as he talked, all the times he had looked into them before and seen hope, kindness and mercy… now all he would see was greed and terribleness. Harry couldn’t bare  the  thought. Even though the  horrible  truth  was now revealed, Harry still didn’t want to believe it.
“How can that possibly help you gain power?”
“Oh my!” exclaimed Dumbledore. “They are one of the most necessary things in my  path  to  immortality.  haven’t  you  noticed,  Harry,  that  except  for  a  few  exceptions, Muggle-borns tend to be far more powerful than Pure-bloods?”
Harry  ran  over  every  Muggle-born  he  knew,  and compared  them  to  the  Pure- bloods. Hermione, yeah, she was definitely above average. Then Ron… not the brightest bulb in the room. For the most part, he was right.
“You,   Voldemort,	and	even	myself	are	all	Muggle-borns,	Harry,”	said Dumbledore. Harry’s ears perked up when he said that he was a Muggle-born. Harry had never really thought about it… what were Dumbledore’s parents? You never really wonder about those  things when it comes  to  older  people. “You see, for  a Muggle-born to  have any magic at all, the magical blood inside the wizard parent must be above average, to be able to fill an entire child, even though they are only giving half. This ensures that the child will be even more  powerful than either  parent, and even more  so  when both parents  are Muggles,  and they have a wizard son  or  daughter. However, the  power  you are  given at birth can only take you so far. That is where I come into their lives.”
“What do you mean?”
“Oh come  on,  Harry!” exclaimed  Dumbledore,  throwing his  hands into  the  air.
 
“You  are  a  Prefect,  probably  going  to  be  Head  Boy,  Quidditch  captain  of  an  almost undefeated team, the school-renounced champion and official captain of the Dueling Club, not to mention fourteen O.W.L.s, two years ago’s Triwizard Tournament Champion, savior of  the school  from  the Chamber of  Secrets,  and the boy who defeated Voldemort  after getting through an intense series of tests during his first year, all to protect the Sorcerer’s Stone. You must have set a record there.”
“Yeah, so?”
“Use  your  brain,  Potter!”  he  said,  pointing  to  his  head.  “You  don’t  honestly believe that you could have accomplished all of that without a little… ‘help’ every now and then, do you?”
“What are you talking about?” spat Harry, now wondering if  everything that had happened in his  life  up to  now had just  been a part of  Dumbledore’s  plan to  make him more powerful so he would be an eventual ally.
“I am saying that while you are an exceptional boy by yourself, I have often given you a slight unfair advantage. Why do you think I gave you the Invisibility Cloak and told you how the Mirror of Erised works in your first year? Why do you think I went along with Lucius  Malfoy’s  plan to  have me  leave my position  as  headmaster  in  the  second  year? Why do you think I told Voldemort to make Barty Crouch Jr give you a little help every now  and  then  during  the  Triwizard  Tournament?  What  made  me  suggest  to  Professor Trelawney to use Monty Python and the Holy Grail? Who do you think suggested to Ernie to  turn  the  Quidditch  match  into  a  duel?  Who  put  a Dumbledore  card  in  each  of  your packs? I did it all so you would have the opportunity to make yourself more powerful, to experience more and grow even greater with each and every challenge.”
“But what about Quidditch and the Dueling Club?” asked Harry, infuriated that his speculation was true. “What did you have to do with them?”
“Harry… come on! I know you think that your Quidditch team is good and all, but do  you  really  think  it  stood  a  chance  against  other,  better  trained,  more  experienced teams? Do you really believe that your group of second years is as good as you saw them play by themselves?”
“Yes,”  fumed  Harry,  not  sure  whether  he  felt  more  angry  at  Dumbledore,  or disappointed in him.
“Well then maybe I was wrong for choosing to help you,” he said glaring at Harry.
“But, anyways, I had Voldemort,  disguised  as  Ak of  course,  control  half  of  the  second years, Chris and Joe,  while I took the other  half, Mike and Akshay. With us controlling them, they were  unstoppable, and you were  victorious  in every match… except for  that one against Hufflepuff. We had to remove our control  from them then, or else  you may have wondered how they could perform so poorly in the Dueling Club, but then be great during your small match against Ernie and his group.”
“So it  was you  who controlled  the  four  second  years  during the  Dueling  Club matches!” exclaimed Harry, his brain back in its fully functioning form. “Somehow, you must have turned invisible and entered into the arenas. There, you took them over and tried to steal Hermione’s Bracelet… and you succeeded.”
“Very good,” said Dumbledore, grinning. “That’s why you lost the club meetings this year. I was so busy trying to control those second years, I didn’t have time to worry about helping you out. But, good thinking there Harry, maybe I was correct in picking you
 
to help after all. Once you put your mind to it, you’re actually quite a bright boy.”
“But, there’s still one more thing amiss here,” said Harry, trying to find some sort of flaw in Dumbledore’s master plan. “How come during your little secret meetings with Quirrell, you said ‘You-Know-Who’ has the Items if he was your ally? Wouldn’t you be happy that he had them, and not concerned?”
“How do  you  know about  that?”  demanded  Dumbledore,  standing up  from  the chair and staring wide-eyed at Harry. “How did you know about the meetings Quirrell and I had?”
“I listened in on them,” said Harry smugly, folding his arms. “All I had to do was transform into my Gryffin, and then the Animagus Invisibility Ring that you gave me would do the rest.”
“I knew it was a mistake to give that to you!” yelled Dumbledore. “But, I had to. What if Sirius came to visit, and he saw that you didn’t have it? He would begin to suspect me, and I couldn’t have that.”
“But why did you call Voldemort You-Know-Who?” asked Harry again.
“We weren’t calling Voldemort  You-Know-Who!” yelled  Dumbledore,  looking more ferocious than Harry had ever seen him before. “We were calling you, Harry Potter, You-Know-Who!”
“What!?” yelled Harry, not understanding. “Why were you calling me that?”
“Just in case someone heard us,” he hissed. “Like I’ve been saying, I have taken absolutely no chances during my entire  life to reveal my true goal. Even in private, I am still unable to talk about it directly. I am barely safe talking and planning in my head….”
“Well it’s a good thing, for you anyways, that you weren’t using real names,” said
Harry. “If you had, I would have figured you out months ago.”
“Now do you see how hard my life has been?”
“Yes,” said Harry, but then, he wondered. “But, why didn’t you just do what you are doing now long ago? Why not proclaim to the world your true goal, kill me, and then make off with the Legendary Items and make yourself the ultimate being?”
“Oh,”  laughed  Dumbledore  heartily,  immediately  snapping  out  of  his  anger.
“Harry… there is a good reason why I did not kill you long, long ago. But, the answer is much to complicated and long for tonight. I’m afraid it will have to wait for another day.”
“Okay then,” said Harry, a little confused. “But, still, why didn’t you just tell the world your goal long ago and start it no mater what? You could have already began your ultra-Utopia by now if you had.”
“Because, Harry,” said Dumbledore in his most kind and soft voice, “I cannot.”
“Why is that?”
“Well there are two reasons. First of all, I am unable to get the Ingredients all by myself. You see, the spell that takes you down to the Hero’s Tests only works on youth, and as you can see I am not as young as I used to be. When I finally decided to seriously begin my quest, I was too old to do it on my own. So, I used you kids to do it for me; to go down and pass the relatively easy test, then deliver the treasure to me.”
“What’s the other reason?”
“Because I cannot begin my reign of bliss until you join me.”
“What makes that true now?” demanded Harry. “You have the three  Ingredients, the Sorcerer’s Stone, and soon enough you’ll have my Ring. Take the Items and be off!”
 
“I’m  afraid   there’s   more   to   the   Immortal   Potion   than   just   that,”   sighed
Dumbledore.
“No there isn’t!” said Harry. “Hermione read to us how to make it in some sort of ancient book. All it said was that you needed the Items, the Stone and the Ring and then voila! You’re immortal.”
“Yes, that is true… but remember? When Hermione read out of the book she said that  she  couldn’t  read  the  rest  because  it  was  smudged,  remember  that?  I  purposely smudged that part out, in the off chance that someone may get a hold of the book. You see, I never do take any chances at all, do I?”
“What did the part you smudged say?”
“The most  important  part  of  the  potion!” said Dumbledore,  finally  sitting back down. “Back when all three items used to be in Geb Pyramid, the guardian was one of the immortal gods: Anubis, the god of the underworld. Only he was able to brew the potion for the  heroes  that passed  the  test.  If anyone else  that was less  powerful  than him tried  to concoct it, they would instantly turn into a pile of ash and never receive immortality. Even in my extremely powerful state of being now, I am still not as great as Anubis was.”
“So how will me joining you give you more power?” asked Harry. “It’s not like I
can just surrender all of my magical energy to you.”
“Ah… but that is where you are wrong!” exclaimed Dumbledore, looking rather excited. “You see, Harry Potter, there are not three Unforgivable Curses… oh no… there are four.”
“Four? What is the fourth?”
“The fourth spell is one that is so terrible, that most dark wizards are even scared to use it. But, it is the only way a wizard of my energy can possibly raise his power any higher.”
“What is the spell!?” demanded Harry again.
“The  Soul  Sucking  Spell,”  hissed  Dumbledore,  grinning.  “It  removes  the  soul from  any  living  organism,  much  in  the  way  a  dementor’s  kiss  does.  But,  instead  of destroying it, the spell instead brings it inside the body of the caster, where it is absorbed by him, adding to his power that of the victim’s. Unfortunately, unless the victim’s power is above or relatively close to yours, you actually lose energy, so much at a time that it is possible to die. So this is one spell that you must be very careful to use. You can‘t just go around using it on everyone. That is why I instituted my Violent Policies.”
“Violent Policies?” asked Harry. “What are those?”
“Oh don’t tell  me  you haven’t noticed?” said Dumbledore,  staring Harry in the eye. Now, there was no glimmer or shine in them, just the blank, white and black spheres that everyone else in the world had. “Extreme Quidditch? Blood-thirst increasing Soaring Skateboards? Letting you kids  use  any spells  you wanted at last  year’s  Charms  O.W.L? Instituting Necromancy, Curses, and Time Travel as new classes next year? It’s all a part of subliminally putting in the back of the minds of youth everywhere to go out and duel to get more  powerful  so  that  I  can  absorb  them.  Even  though  I  figured  absorbing  you  and Voldemort would probably be enough, it certainly wouldn‘t hurt to get in a few others here and there, now would it?”
“So that’s what you’re going to eventually do to Voldemort,” said Harry through his clenched teeth. “Suck his soul  out  and make him permanently a part of  you and it’s
 
what you would do to me if I joined you.”
“It is the only way for me to achieve god-like powers,” he shrugged.
“One last  question…” said Harry, the  amount of  new information  his mind had received tonight was enough to make it explode already, but there was one more thing still bugging him. “Why not just use the Sorcerers Stone to begin with? It makes you immortal, and you don’t have to  go through the  whole  hassle  and ordeal  that the  Immortal  Potion requires.”
“Oh Harry,  you  are  too  much!” laughed Dumbledore,  slapping his  knee.  “Even though the  Sorcerer’s  Stone  gives  you  immortality,  it  does  not  give you  the  increased power that the Immortal potion does. No, I need the potion… and that reminds me of why I came here. I still need your Ring, Harry.”
Harry swallowed hard, knowing now that all questions and stalling had come to an end, and it  was time  to  face  whatever Dumbledore  and Voldemort  had in store  for  him. Dumbledore stood up, and Voldemort walked over to him, arms folded and grinning. All of the Death Eaters pushed their way through the crowd, and made their way behind their two masters.
“Before  I  ask  you  for  it,  though,”  said  Dumbledore,  actually  looking  quite impressive with his small army behind and to the side of him, “I actually have a question for you, Harry.”
“What is  it?” he demanded, spitting on the ground, aiming for  Dumbledore  and
 
missing.

 


“Why on Earth did you not come running to me saying that you knew there were
 
Death Eaters  in the  school  besides  Neville?” he  asked, shaking his  head in amazement.
“You knew Ernie  was one,  as  well  as  many prefects,  and I’m sure  you had many other suspicions… why didn’t you tell me about them?”
“Because I thought about what you told me, that they still had hope,” said Harry, trying to sound more brave than he was feeling. “I thought that if I told you about the rest, they would be expelled and that would be that. But, if I let them stay, maybe they would see the light…. Evidently, I was wrong.”
Harry glared at Neville and Ernie whose grins took up most of their faces. It was sickening to see them standing next to each other like that, showing off their dark marks as if they were five year olds and they were cool temporary tattoos.
“Evidently…” said Voldemort, smiling at Harry.
“You be  quiet!” exclaimed Dumbledore  to  him, putting his  hand up in front  of Voldemort’s face. “You know I wasn’t planning for tonight to be the night I tell all of this, but because of you stupidity, it has to be.”
“I am sorry master,” he said humbly, bowing his head.
“Not  as  sorry  as  you will  be  after  I’m through with you,” hissed  Dumbledore, putting his hand down. “Now, Harry, there is one last thing I want to tell you before I ask you to hand over the Ring.”
“What is it?” asked Harry, knowing his time was short to think of something. But, what could he do? He would have been incredibly lucky if he had beaten just Voldemort, but with Dumbledore too… and the Death Eaters? The odds were not looking good.
“You know, all this time there has been one other person who has known my true goal other than myself and Voldemort.”
 
“Who? The Death Eaters?”
“Them?” asked Dumbledore, almost smiling and pointing to the group of students and adults behind him. “Oh no! None of them know that I am their master’s master. Ever since they joined him, they have regarded me as their number one enemy… next to you of course. I’m sure that this is all new news to them tonight, though they are all more than willing to accept it, lest they lose their heads.”
“Then who?” asked Harry, knowing that his time left  with his Ring was short. It was very sad indeed… like driving your child to college, knowing that the further you got, the less  time  you had with him or  her. It was the  same way for  Harry… only he would never see or wear the Ring again for the rest of his life.
“You,” grinned Dumbledore, pointing a finger right at Harry.
“Me!?” exclaimed Harry. This was more than he could take! How could he have possibly known Dumbledore’s true goal? How did he know that he was really Voldemort’s master? How could he have known any of this!? “There’s no way!”
“I’m afraid that there is,” he said, still smiling. “You see, like I said before, I never take  chances,  Harry. Absolutely  never! Even with all  the  precautions  I’ve taken, there’s still the chance that someone may still find out. So, I did the only thing I could do to make absolutely  sure  no  one  I didn’t want to  would ever  find  out….  I made  you  my secret- keeper.”
“You  made  me  a  secret-keeper!?”  screamed  Harry.  Then,  he  stopped  for  a moment  and  realized  that  it  was  true!  When  he  was  in  the  wNet  with  Hermione, researching the Ring, what had the screen had told them of some of the other powers that the Ring had: It slightly amplifies the wearer’s magical power, and increases their stamina a little. It also changes the temperature of the surroundings if someone that has made the wearer  a  secret-keeper  is  near.  The colder  it  gets,  the  more  serious  the  secret!  Harry suddenly realized that whenever Dumbledore had been near him, he had felt cold, though he  had always blamed it  on  the  temperature  or  wind, or  just  taking it  for  granted. How could  he  have been  so  stupid!? “But, then  I would have known all  of  this!  I could  have stopped	all	this	from	happening!”
“Yes, you could of,” said Dumbledore, “had you been awake when I performed the spell on you… or capable of understanding what I was saying.”
“What do you mean?” demanded Harry. “When did you do it?”
“I did it approximately ten seconds after Voldemort was defeated by you after he killed your parents on that famous night. I ran inside and heard you crying, wondering what had happened. Surely if Voldemort had attacked, you must be dead! But, I peered into your crib and saw you there, bawling your eyes out before you fell asleep moments later from exhaustion. Then, I realized that you were the solution to all of my problems! If you grew up with the secret in your mind, you would pay it no heed when you got older, having had it all your life. Knowing this, I immediately performed the spell and then ran away, feeling quite happy with myself.”
“What  are  you  talking  about?”  demanded  Harry.  “Sirius  said  he  was  the  first person  to  visit  the  house  after  my parents  were  killed! How could you have been there before him?”
“Because I was there  the whole time,” grinned Dumbledore. “Who do you think was the one that told Voldemort to attack you and your family in the first place? It was me
 
Harry… I told him to do it.”
Harry’s mind suddenly went blank. Everything that Dumbledore had just told him in the past hour or so no longer mattered. All the other families’ and people’s deaths he was responsible  for  didn’t matter. Now it was personal… it was his fault that he had no parents! It was his fault that he a scar! It was his fault for… everything!
“YOU MONSTER!” yelled Harry, putting all of his anger, sorrow and hatred into those  two words.  He  grabbed for  his  wand, but Dumbledore  was faster.  He  mumbled a spell, and Harry’s arm froze in place. He was no longer in control of the arm; it was forced back into a neutral position by his side, away from his wand.
“Now… that’s better,” said Dumbledore, Harry now glaring at him, seeing him for the monster that he really was… no, monster was too kind a word for this creature. He was just some sort of horribly twisted organism that somehow arrived on this planet happening to look like a human. “It is time for me to ask you, Harry…. You can either join me and become part of me and experience power, love and peace like you have never before, or I can kill you and I will become immortal by using somebody else.”
“Go to Hell you piece of trash,” spat Harry, this time hitting Dumbledore.
“Very well then!” exclaimed Dumbledore, fire suddenly roaring in his dead eyes.
“I will become  a god without you! Let me show you the power that I have already!” He raised his hand up into the sky, and snapped his fingers, making the sound echo throughout the entire room like a bell.
Suddenly,  not   even  a  moment   after   the   snapping  sound  stopped   echoing, everybody in the room, all the students and Death Eaters turned their heads toward Harry. Their eyes rolled back in their  head as if they were being controlled by somebody else, and then they removed their wands from their pockets. Harry swallowed hard, seeing over a thousand wands aimed directly at him.
 
Chapter 31- Harry Potter Against The World

“How did you do that?” gasped Harry, staring in awe at Dumbledore’s instant army of  hundreds of  people. They were little  more  than living zombies, staring at Harry with their blank eyes, ready to strike at a second’s notice in response to their master’s whim.
“You can’t possibly be controlling all of them at once like that.”
“Well,  you  are  partly  correct,  Harry,” grinned  Dumbledore.  “It is  not  I that  is controlling them… nor is it Voldemort, or any of the Death Eaters before you.”
“Then who is?”
“You have played the Wizard Duel card game, haven’t you, Harry?”
“Yeah, so? What does that have to do with anything?”
“That game is yet another one of my secret plans to gain more power,” he smiled.
“In each  and every card, there  is  a small,  undetectable  spell.  It is  so  small  that  just  by playing the game a few times, it does not work. You must play the game several times for it to take full effect.”
“What does the spell do?” demanded Harry.
“Isn’t it obvious? It lets the creator of the cards control whoever was playing with them,  as  long  as  they  were  sure  to  put  the  weakened  spell  into  the  card.” He  grinned, showing off  his  superior  thinking. “So, every time  you play a game, you are  becoming more  and  more  under  control.  That  is  why I  had  Ak institute  the  club  and  try  to  get everybody to join, and had Aylar make cards for the Death Eaters to use, they would still be able to play and not get noticed, but not be affected by the spell. Now, since the entire school likes the game, the entire school is under my power.”
“So then why am I not one of your puppets?” asked Harry, suddenly realizing that he should be part of the controlled collective and not able to think on his own. “Why am I able to control myself while everyone else can’t?”
“Well,  there  are  two  reasons  why,” he  grunted,  sounding  disappointed  that  he wasn’t controlling Harry right now. “First, you used the older  cards with Ron, ones  that didn’t have the spell put into them. They were safe to play with. Also, there is a drawback to using the spell that I did. If you play the game a lot, like you and Weasley did, then you build up an immunity to it, making me unable to control you. That’s why I had Ak cancel the Wizard Duel game meetings after the cancellation of the field trip. If he continued to have them  every week, then the  entire  student body would build up an immunity to  my spell, making all of my efforts useless.”
“So then why is Ron still one of your slaves?” asked Harry, assuming that he was. But, just then, his best friend burst through the crowd and appeared next to Voldemort and the  other  Death Eaters.  He  was looking almost  rabid. His  costume  was torn  up and his eyes were bloodshot, the veins were popping out all over his body. A mixture of foam and saliva was dripping through his clenched teeth that were looking especially sharp.
“Ron!” exclaimed Harry. “You weren’t affected by the card game! You’re okay…
kind of!”
“I didn’t  take  my  werewolf  potion  tonight!  I  was  supposed  to  right  after  the dance,” he  seethed,  not  paying any attention  to  Harry except  for  looking at him with a hungry expression. “And it’s a full moon! Watch out before I… AAARRRGGG!”
Suddenly, Ron grew  three times his size and exploded his costume off, shooting
 
shreds of it all over the room. Gray and black fur instantly grew all over his body, covering every  surface  and his  arms,  legs,  stomach,  everything  gained  at  least  fifty  times  their original  muscle  amount.  Knife-like  claws  shot  out  of  his  feet  and hands,  and his  head turned into that of a wolf’s, the long snout, sharp ears, and teeth that looked like blades. He  threw  his  arms  and  head  up  into  the  air,  giving  an  unearthly  growl  that  echoed throughout the entire school, making the blood of everyone that heard it curdle.
“GET  HIM!”  screamed  Dumbledore  at  the  top  of  his  lungs.  Not  wasting  a moment, everyone in the  room  leapt at the transformed Ron, shooting various spells  at him in vain. Each time one of  them came near him, Ron merely whacked them with his fist, sending them flying across  the room and into the wall. But, there  were so  many of them  that  he  was being almost  overwhelming by them  as  they  clung to  his  arms,  head, body, everything. It was as if Ron was swimming in a sea of  people, but more  along the lines of drowning.
“What  are  you  fools  waiting  for!?”  demanded  Dumbledore,  asking  the  Death Eaters and Voldemort that were just standing back, watching the rest  of the students in the room attacking Ron. “Get Harry! Get him now!”
“Yes  master!”  they  all  yelled,  leaping  towards  Harry.  Ernie,  Neville  and Aylar were the first three to do so, and Harry reacted instantly, taking out his wand.
“Just pretend it’s a Dueling Club match…” Harry thought to himself, wondering how he was going to beat three of the best fighters in the school. “Like one from last year, when it was a one on three match… it’s just a duel, just another easy match.”
“Any last words, Harry?” asked Neville in the middle of the three, closing in on him with his wand out, same as the other two.
“Yeah,” said Harry, feeling more enraged now than he ever had before in his life.
“Siragus!”
The spell  took them by surprise  and delayed their  reaction time. Before  any of the  three  of  them realized what was going to  happen, the  explosion  already took  place, sending them flying up into the air.
“Stupefy!” yelled Harry, aiming for Neville as he fell from his spot in the air. The red flash hit him, but did nothing. Neville, along with Aylar and Ernie, landed on his feet on the ground, like a cat would.
“Don’t you think that I am more powerful than that?” demanded Neville, staring at Harry with an amazed expression. “The Stupefication Spell has no effect on me anymore, I am more powerful than it can possibly be. It is the same for all of us.”
“Then why don’t you just Avada Kedavra me and get it over with?” asked Harry, wondering how on Earth he was going to defeat three almost invincible opponents. “Just one shot and game over, you win.”
“You don’t know how much we would like to do that,” said Ernie, glaring at Harry.
“But, we still have to follow orders,” added Aylar.
“Yeah, and the orders are to not kill you no matter what,” finished up Neville. Harry sighed to himself and considered his options. No spells less powerful than
the Stupefying Spell would work, and that took away a great many options, most of them. Amongst  the  only  spells  that  Harry  knew  that  were  more  powerful  than  it  were  the Unforgivable Curses… but he couldn’t use those on them! Even if they were pure evil, he still didn’t want them dead.
 
But,  did  he?  Harry  thought.  The  three  people  before  him  were  followers  of someone who killed his parents. Not only did that mean they approved of what he did, but they glorified it, probably even laughed about it in private meetings! Nobody’s lives meant anything to them, so why should their own!? It was time to teach them all a lesson none of them would ever forget!
“AVADA KEDAVRA!” yelled Harry as loud and with as much power as he could. Amazed that he was able to cast the spell, the infamous green light flashed, and not even a moment later, Neville collapsed onto the floor, dead.
“You… killed him,” said Aylar in a flat  yet  amazed voice,  looking down at his fallen comrade. “You really did do it….”
“Yeah!” exclaimed  Harry,  the  exhilaration  of  battle  flowing through him  along with his blood and adrenaline. “And you’re next! CRUCIO!” This time, there was a black flash of light, and Aylar’s body exploded into no more than a home for pain.
“AAAHHH!” he screamed, having probably never experienced the curse  before. Being a Death Eater  from  birth, he was probably never given the  initiation. Harry knew what he was going through, though, unlike himself, Aylar deserved it.
Leaving  Aylar  collapsed  on  the  ground,  still  screaming,  the  spell  still  going through him, Harry shot a look at Ernie, the final of the three left. He piped a little scream and jumped back.
“Woah woah woah…” he said, putting out his arms. “How about we just talk about this, okay Harry?”
“Time for  talking is  over!” Harry yelled, stomping up to  Ernie  and stepping on
Aylar as he got closer to him. He pointed his wand directly at his head.
“Here!” exclaimed  Ernie,  looking terrified.  He  dropped his  wand on  the  floor.
“I’ll set my wand down on the ground as a sign of my good faith. Listen, if we team up, we can take out Voldemort… together!”
“Bad move,” whispered Harry. Ernie’s eyes grew wide, realizing what was about to happen to him. “KOROSUCIDE!”
Ernie’s body instantly exploded into millions of tiny pieces, the biggest being no larger than the tip of  a pencil. They all fell  to  the floor, creating a small pile. A second later. Harry heard Aylar finally stop fidgeting. He was dead now as well, his brain unable to take anymore pain.
All three Death Eaters were now gone. Harry had done it… he really had! He had beaten three superior Death Eaters! Like it was nothing! No wonder Dumbledore wanted him as an ally. All it took was a little death spell and-
Suddenly, Harry stopped and realized what he had just  done. He had just  killed three  people….  Sure,  they  were  not  innocent  by  any  means,  and  the  crimes  they  had performed  were  probably worthy of  death, but it  wasn’t his  place  to  decide.  Harry  had acted  no  better  than  Voldemort  or  Dumbledore  himself.  He  had  acted  out  on  some primitive instinct of revenge, and three human lives was the price. Harry fell down to his knees. What had he done… what had he done?
“Hey!” yelled the Death Eater Sata, or as Harry had known him for the past two years:  Tci. “Hey! Wormtail!  Khan! Lestrange! Nott!  Get  over  here!  Potter’s  beaten  the three new Death Eaters!”
“Impossible!” exclaimed Wormtail, running over with the other three who stood
 
before Harry looking dumbfounded. “Those three were the top of the still-student-Death
Eaters!”
“Evidently,”  hissed  Lestrange,  “Potter  is  more  powerful  than  we  previously imagined him to be.”
“Well he doesn’t appear to be very powerful right now,” commented Nott. “The way he’s sitting there on his knees… almost pathetic.”
“Harry!” yelled Wormtail, walking up and bending over so  that the two of  them were face to face. “Why aren’t you fighting!? What’s going on!?”
“I killed them…” whispered Harry very softly, not blinking. “I killed them….”
“I believe the boy is in shock from defeating his opponents,” hissed Khan.
“Well,” said Wormtail,  standing back up, “our master  said to  bring him to  him alive, so let’s just get him over there now.”
The four of them surrounded Harry and hit him with a Levitation Spell, hovering him over to Voldemort who was busy observing the continuing fight between Ron and the students  under  the  spell  of  the  cards.  Ron  appeared  to  be  winning,  around  the  sea  of students  that  were  still  climbing  all  over  him  and  attacking  him  was  another  ring  of unconscious  kids,  either  slashed  up  and  bloody,  or  just  from  impact  against  the  wall, ceiling or floor. Harry wasn’t sure which pile was bigger, though Ron was looking a little tired.  He  was  thankful,  however,  that  Ron  was  here.  It  would  have been  impossible  to defeat all of those students on his own.
“Master,” said Wormtail, making Voldemort turn around. Harry saw that he was no  longer  wearing the  Items.  The Stone  necklace,  Glove, Watch, and Bracelet  were  all gone. Evidently, Dumbledore had taken them all back. “Potter has defeated the three most powerful still-student-Death Eaters.”
“Has he?” asked Voldemort lazily, looking only minimally impressed. But, what Harry noticed more  than his expression was Crookshanks. He was still  here! The ginger cat was walking around behind Voldemort, pacing, as if waiting for something.
“Yes, and what should we do?” asked Lestrange.
“Oh… I don’t know,” sighed Voldemort, waving an arm. “Don’t kill him but… hurt him a little I suppose.” Crookshanks suddenly stopped pacing and turned its head towards Voldemort, now slowly walking towards him.
At the  prospect  of  a new fight  coming  on,  Harry  snapped out  of  his  catatonic phase and back into reality. He had killed the three young Death Eaters, but life had to go on. If Harry didn’t defend himself, then he was going to end up just like they did.
“With pleasure…” seethed Wormtail as he gave a sinister  smile. All five Death Eaters  removed their  Levitation Charms from him and let  Harry fall to  the hard ground. All of them except Wormtail put their wands away, and he aimed it right at Harry’s chest.
“Now… which spell should I use first?”
Just then, when Harry was expecting some sort of horrible pain to enrapture his entire  body, driving him nearly to  insanity, Crookshanks leapt  through the  air  and right onto Wormtail’s head, pinning him to the ground.
“What the!?” yelled Khan, taking out his wand and aiming it at Crookshanks. Just as he was about to shoot a spell out, Crookshanks flipped Wormtail over so that he laid on top of the cat, and not the other way around. He was using Wormtail as a human shield!
“Avada Kedavra!” yelled Khan, before he realized that Crookshanks had turned the
 
tables  on him. A moment later,  he realized his mistake, but it  was too  late. The Killing Curse  hit Wormtail, slaying him instantly. What was Crookshanks doing? He was acting like no cat Harry had ever seen!
Then, Harry  realized  that  Crookshanks  wasn’t a cat.  From  underneath the  dead Wormtail,	Arabella   Figg   appeared,   replacing   the	ginger	creature.	She   had   been Crookshanks all along! Not wasting any time, Arabella aimed her wand at Lestrange.
“Inconscientus!” she  yelled.  There  was a yellow  flash,  and he  fell  over  on  the ground,  not  quite  dead,  he  was  still  breathing,  but  definitely  unconscious.  Having  the element of surprise on her side, she quickly performed it on Nott as well before he had a chance to react.
“Avada Kedavra!” yelled Harry, aiming for the last one, Khan, seeing that he was about to attack Mrs. Figg. His body, along with his wand, fell to the floor  with a squishy crash. Both never to be used again.
“What are  you  doing here!?” demanded Harry,  jumping to  his  feet.  “How long have you been Crookshanks!? Why were you Crookshanks!? What’s going one!?”
“Hold on! Hold on!” she exclaimed. “I’ve been the cat that you call Crookshanks for  the past three years, Harry. I was originally assigned to  protect  you when Sirius was reported escaped from  Azkaban and it  wasn’t known that he was actually innocent. And, even though you no longer need protection from him, I thought it would be a good idea for me to stay… just in case. I think it’s a good thing I did. If I hadn’t shown up just now, who knows what would’ve happened to you just then.”
“So that’s why Crookshanks was never there during the day last year,” said Harry, feeling extremely weak and tired from performing so  many difficult spells. Even saying that last  sentence  was draining. “You were busy teaching during the day and couldn’t be both professor  and cat  at once.  That’s also  why you attacked Scabbers  too!  Sirius  must have told you the true story, and you wanted him dead just as much as he did.”
“Precisely,” she beamed.
“Well  well  well…”  applauded Voldemort  sarcastically.  Both  of  them  suddenly remembered that he was still  there.  “Aren’t you the bright one, Harry? And to  think… I wanted to kill you? Why do that when I could have your superior brain?”
“Expelliarmus!” yelled Mrs. Figg, not wasting any time.
“Avada Kedavra!” yelled Voldemort back in response, just as fast.
As expected, the two spells met in midair. Arabella’s red beam, and Voldemort’s green  one  melded  together  into  one,  muddy  colored  ray  that  joined  the  two  wands together.  Both  of  them  were  putting all  of  their  energy into  trying to  make their  spell overtake the other, though neither was looking to be winning. Their power appeared to be almost equal, and Harry was sure that if Mrs. Figg kept it up for a little longer, she could win!
“Arabella!” said Voldemort in a hissing voice, his arm shaking slightly from the effort  he was putting into concentrating on his spell. “When will you ever learn that the student has finally become superior to the master and that I will beat you?”
Mrs. Figg didn’t say anything. She just concentrated every last ounce of  energy that she had on keeping her spell in the game, and it seemed as though she needed to be doing  that.  Her   hand  that  was  holding  onto   the   wand  was  shaking  far  more   than Voldemort’s, and now Harry saw that maybe her chances of winning weren’t as great as he
 
had originally thought. The connecting beam suddenly began to grow more and more green from its darker state. The red part of it was dimming, until it became a light green all over, showing that  Voldemort’s  Killing  Curse  was  winning. A brighter  and brighter  green  is glowed, until it was now only one spell, the Avada Kedavra curse.
Voldemort had won the duel.
The  green  light  flashed  around  Mrs.  Figg,  and  giving  one  last  scream,  she collapsed to the ground, dead; another one of Voldemort’s victims.
“NO!” yelled Harry, seeing one of  the greatest teachers, protectors, and friends he had ever had fall down to the floor  with a loud thud. Her wand rolled out of her limp fingers, across the floor, and right up to the tips of Harry’s feet.
“Well well…” hissed Voldemort, putting his wand down. “It appears as though I was correct, as usual. She was foolish to think that she could stand against me and win. So many foolish people, Harry, so little time.”
“Shut up,” fumed Harry, not knowing what else to say. What else could he say?
“Ooh, talking big now are we?” grinned Voldemort. “Maybe I should put a little stop to your chatter once and for all.”
“Go ahead,” seethed Harry, shaking with rage. “Why don’t you stupefy or disarm me? I know that Dumbledore doesn’t want you to kill me, but there’s nothing to stop you from rendering me unconscious. Go ahead, do it!”
“Very well  then,  Harry,” he  smiled,  showing all  of  his  perfectly  white,  fanged teeth.  “But  just  remember  this…  you  brought  it  upon  yourself  for  me  to  fight  you! Stupefy!”
The  red  beam  exploded  froth  from  Voldemort’s  wand,  right  at  Harry’s  face. Instinctively, Harry shut his eyes awaiting the coming impact of the spell, then the world to  turn  black  around him,  and fall  backwards  on  the  floor  with  a  thud.  But…  no  such experience  came. The world around Harry only stayed black because his eyes  were still shut, and he immediately opened them up, wondering what was going on.
Before him laid Voldemort, collapsed on the ground. Harry quickly scanned the room, for any sign of who could have attacked him, but saw no one. The only explanation was that the Stupefy Spell had somehow, remarkably, bounced off  of  Harry, and back to Voldemort, hitting him with his own spell and knocking him out. But…how on Earth could that be possible?
Instantly, the answer came to Harry. Colin Creevey.
Last year, that small boy had sacrificed his life for Harry, jumping in the way of Voldemort’s Killing Curse just before  it had hit Harry. Instead of  him dying, Colin had, and with his spirit departing the Earth, the same protection his mother had given him when she sacrificed herself  had been given to  him again. Colin’s love for  Harry was far more powerful than any of Voldemort’s curses, and now Harry was going to show him once and for all!
Feeling  a great  surge  of  power  flowing through him, Harry  marched  up to  the fallen  Voldemort.  His  bony body was still  breathing, still  alive, but only  just.  Even his Stupefy Spell was more  powerful than many wizard’s greater  spells,  due to  his insanely high magical energy level.
Remembering all  of  the  deaths  that the  beast  before  him had been responsible
 
for, Harry took out his wand ready to end his terrible life. Voldemort had killed countless innocent  people,  torn  families  apart, destroyed Harry’s life,  and then sealed  the  bill  by killing Prancy, Arabella, and dozens of other students tonight. Now, he was going to pay for everything he had done! He was going to pay! He wasn’t a human like Neville, Ernie, and Aylar used to be… he was a monster… undeserving of life. Killing him would be no worse than swatting a mosquito.
“AVADA KEDA-” screamed Harry, louder than he ever had in his life. But, just as the final syllable was about to escape his mouth, Voldemort disappeared into thin air. He erupted into a living flame and turned into a pile of ash, disappearing in the same way that all of  his Death Eaters  did. “Come back here! Get back here  you coward and fight! Get what  you  deserve  and  have  had  coming  to  you  all  your  life!  Get  back  here  and  fight Voldemort! Get back here now!”
“I have a better  idea,” whispered  Dumbledore  from  behind. Harry spun around, and saw the old man behind him, his arms behind his back, walking closer. “How about I let Voldemort go away for now, and you fight me instead?”
“Me… fight you…?” swallowed Harry, not really sure what to think. Even though the two of  them were on opposite  sides  now, and Harry should be able to  fight him, he didn’t know if he could.
“Yes, I know that the chances  of  you winning are… zero, so  I will, for  the last time may I add, ask you for the Ring. Give it to me now, and I shall spare you a humiliating defeat, along with your death.”
“I thought you said you didn’t want to  kill  me,” said Harry, wondering what he could  do.  He  looked  all  over  the  room  for  anything  that  may  help  him.  The  pile  of unconscious  students  was  growing,  and  with  every  new  student  thrown  onto  it,  Ron’s energy was going down. Even though there were only about twenty kids still attacking Ron, he looked as though he was still having a tough time. His slashing movements were long and dreary, and when he did hit them, it was as if they were being rammed with a Nerf ball. Ron would be of no help to him now, and there was no one and nothing else in the room that could help him. All that Harry had was himself…  that’s all he had to  face  the most powerful wizard in the world with.
“I am  going to  ask  you  for  the  final  time,”  said  Dumbledore  sternly,  ignoring
Harry’s question and extending his arm out. “Give me the Ring or face the consequences.”
“The only  way you’re  going  to  get  the  Ring is  to  cut  it  off  of  my  cold,  dead finger,” spat Harry, wanting to at least sound tough before he died.
“If that  is  what you  want,” said  Dumbledore,  taking a deep  breath,  standing up straight, and taking out his wand. “So be it!”
“Wait a minute!” yelled Harry, suddenly realizing something. “You can’t hurt me! I have Colin’s protection! Since you were the one who told Voldemort to come and try to kill me last year, not only is Voldemort unable to hurt me, but you too! I have protection from you both!”
Remembering from his first year at school that Harry’s shield of love that Colin gave him also had offensive powers if he touched someone that he had protection against, Harry ran full throttle at Dumbledore and pressed his hands against his face, expecting it to boil and turn to ash, just like the old Professor Quirrell did when Harry touched him.
“What do you think you’re doing!?” asked a very confused Dumbledore. He used
 
his wand to blast Harry off of his face and several feet across the room.
“But, that should have killed you!” exclaimed Harry, wondering what went wrong. Dumbledore  showed no signs of  being hurt, in fact, he looked just as healthy as ever… only much more annoyed. “I don’t understand….”
“There is a lot you do not yet understand!” yelled Dumbledore, aiming his wand right at Harry. “Inconscientus!”
Harry  quickly  rolled  out  of  the  way  to  avoid  the  yellow  beam,  immediately turning his mind from why his shield wasn’t working properly to fighting Dumbledore. He quickly transformed his shoulders into his gryffin wings and took to the air, knowing he stood a better chance if he had more room to avoid the spells.
“Avada Kedavra!” yelled Harry, desperate to exterminate Dumbledore as quickly and efficiently as possible before the battle turned more into his favor.
There was a green flash that filled the room and Harry was amazed that his spell had hit its target. Harry looked at Dumbledore, waiting for him to fall to the ground, the battle to be over. But, Dumbledore showed no such sign. He merely wiped his nose and Harry saw some blood on the hand he used to wipe it with.
“Well, I must congratulate you, Harry,” said Dumbledore, wiping his hand on his robe. “You gave me a nosebleed… well done.”
Harry was shocked. The most powerful spell he knew, the one that killed instantly only gave Dumbledore  a nosebleed…. He didn’t stand a chance. How could he possibly stand against someone that strong. Knowing that he couldn’t possibly be victorious in his human form,  Harry  transformed  into  the  full  gryffin  and gave a roar,  hoping to  maybe scare Dumbledore a bit, though it looked like it didn’t work.
“So…  you  want to  turn  this  from  a  duel  into  a  monster  fight  do  you?” asked Dumbledore, licking his lips. “Well then, Harry Potter, prepare to be defeated even worse than you would have been!”
With  that, Dumbledore  closed  his  eyes,  threw out  his  arms, and let  the  animal form  consume  him,  take  him  over.  Instantly,  the  new  Dumbledore  appeared  in  animal form, and it was the most terrifying animal Harry had ever seen.
At fist,  Harry just  thought it  was a giant Black Phoenix, which was essentially what it was. But, then he noticed the razor-sharp teeth, the snakes coming out of the head, and the scorpion tail and claws that it had as well. All of that mixed in with a one hundred foot  long  and  fifty  foot  wide  black  skeleton  of  a  phoenix  made  for  one  horrifying monster.  Harry realized that Dumbledore  wasn’t just  a normal  Animagus… he  was like Malfoy, a Polymagus, and he had created the perfect, most terrible monster the world had ever seen.
“Do you like it?” asked Dumbledore in Harry’s mind. He was snapping his teeth, claws, snake mouths and poison-filled needle tail all over the place as he spoke. “I’m not exactly sure what to call it, but it is powerful, that’s for sure!”
Knowing that he didn’t stand a chance, and knowing that he was going to be killed instantly, and knowing that Dumbledore would wipe the floor with him, Harry summoned up all the courage that he possessed  and flew straight at Dumbledore, bearing all of  his teeth, ready to tear into the bony and gassy flesh.
But, just as he was about to bite down on whatever it was the Black Phoenix skin was made  out  of,  one  of  Dumbledore’s  claws whacked Harry  straight  across  the  body,
 
sending him flying through the air and straight into the wall. From his position, Harry slid down the surface of the wall, making a single, long crack in it as he went. When he finally collapsed on the floor, Harry felt as though every bone in his body was broken.
“Give up?” laughed Dumbledore, bending down and looking right at Harry in the face with his phoenix eyes.
“You... wish…” gasped Harry, trying to bear the pain, though it was far easier said than done. Knowing that if he transformed back into his human form most of the damage would be repaired, Harry called upon every ounce of energy that he had, and morphed back into his even weaker, but healthy, human body.
“Have you had enough of fighting in animal forms?”
“I… don’t know… have you?”
“Oh Harry, you make it seem as though I enjoy this,” sighed Dumbledore. “But, truth be told, I don’t. I would love it so much if people would just believe what I told them long ago, and I wouldn’t have to do it this way. But, like I said before, humans are stupid like that.”
“Yeah,  I’m  surprised  no  one  would  embrace  you  as  the  universal  dictator…
especially if they saw you like this.”
“Come now, Harry,” said Dumbledore  in a fairly cheery  voice,  considering the circumstances. He quickly turned back into his human form, shrinking over forty feet in less  than a second. It was quite a spectacular sight. “You are weak, practically dead, you cannot possibly fight anymore. Please, just give me the Ring and it will all be over.”
“I’ll never give it to you… you traitor.”
“You do realize, then, that I will have to cut off your hand.”
“Go ahead,” seethed Harry. “Make my day.”
“So be it…” sighed Dumbledore, making the same sword Voldemort had called upon pop out of the tip of his wand. He started walking up to Harry, holding it as if he were ready to slice up a piece of meat.
Harry closed his eyes and banged his head against the wall. It was over… it was all over. No one was going to come and save him this time. Dumbledore was going to take the Ring, absorb him and Voldemort’s souls, and then become a universal dictator… and who knows what he could do with those powers? But, no one could stop him. Not Harry, not even Voldemort. The only thing that could stop him was if Dumbledore decided to change his  mind, and there  was no  chance  of  that happening…. Unless…  unless  someone  else changed his mind for him! That was it!
“ANATA NARU!” screamed Harry, ripping his wand out of his pocket, and taking Dumbledore  completely  by surprise.  If he  wasn’t going to  change his  mind by himself, Harry was going to do it for him! He was going to use Dumbledore’s incredible power to destroy the Items and put a stop to this once and for all!
Just  like  in  his  duel  with  Malfoy,  it  looked  as  though  time  around  them  had frozen,  and  a  black,  gassy  cloud  began  coming  out  of   each  of   them.  The  clouds materialized  above  their  heads  and  then  switched  places,  flowing  back  into  the  other person’s   body.  The  next   thing  Harry   knew,  he   was  staring   at   himself…   through Dumbledore’s eyes! The spell had worked! He had become Dumbledore!
“No!” exclaimed Dumbledore in Harry’s body. “Look what you have done!”
“And look  at what I’m going to  do  to  your  Items!” yelled  Harry, feeling more
 
powerful  in  Dumbledore’s  body than he  ever  had in  his  own. He  ripped the  Sorcerer’s Stone necklace off of his neck and held in in front of him with one arm, pointing his wand at it with the other. Harry finally decided on a spell to use to destroy it, got ready to say it… but then couldn’t.
Harry tried again. He thought of the Explosion Spell in his mind, got ready to use it… but then, no matter how hard he tried, he couldn’t say the words to summon the spell! It was as if his lips had been sewn together! He couldn’t speak the words!
“What’s going on!?” Harry demanded to Dumbledore. “Why can’t I destroy it!?”
“You fool,” he hissed, standing up and holding his side. “Don’t you know that the Anata Naru  Spell  only  lets  you  switch  bodies  with  someone…  not  minds?  You  aren’t going to be able to do anything in my body that I wouldn’t have wanted to do.”
“But,” stuttered Harry, in shock that his plan was not going to work, “how come I
was able to do whatever I wanted in Malfoy’s body?”
“You weren’t,” said Dumbledore, not used to the youthful voice and body yet. “It just so happened that you were able to turn Draco back into his human form because deep down, in an almost invisible amount, he wanted you to win. Despite how much he denied it, the two of you still were, and probably will always be, friends… deep down of course… very  deep  down.  But,  with  me,  no  matter  how  deep  down  you  check,  you  will  find absolutely no desire to destroy the Items.”
Now  Harry  was  stuck.  He  couldn’t  stay  in  Dumbledore’s  body  because  he wouldn’t be able to do anything that Dumbledore wouldn’t want to do… which is basically everything that he did want to do! But, he couldn’t trade bodies back. The instant he did, Dumbledore would cast another spell on him and he would win. Harry had to think of an alternative method… but what? What could he possibly do? He was stuck between a rock and a hard place, and there  was a man-eating bush in the middle. Harry went over in his mind every single spell, charm, hex and curse that he knew… but to no avail.
Harry stood there, looking at everything in the room, hoping to find the answer when suddenly his eyes  grew wide. He could feel  his heart beating in his chest…  and a light bulb went off in his head! He knew what to do!
He knew how he could win!
“I think I’ll be  taking that Ring now!” Harry yelled,  grabbing onto  Dumbledore with one arm, and then bringing the hand with the sword still in it up in the air, ready to slice down.
“No! You wouldn’t!” exclaimed Dumbledore. “Not to your own body!”
Not  listening  to  him,  Harry  brought  the  sword  down  on  Dumbledore’s  arm, cutting the hand with the Ring on it off. The dead hand fell to the ground, made a soft and squishy sound, and then began letting out a pool of blood all around it.
“AARRGG!”  yelled  Dumbledore  in  Harry’s  body,  gripping  onto  his  stub  and falling to his knees from the pain. Still trying to ignore him for now, Harry picked up the hand, and pulled the Skull Ring off. After giving it a quick kiss, he slipped it on his finger, instantly  feeling  reborn.  If  Harry  had  thought  he  felt  more  powerful  than  he  used  to before, it was nothing compared to how he felt now! Harry felt as though he had already made and drank one hundred Immortality Potions! He was on top of the world, and no one could beat him!
But no! Harry had to remind himself that that was not part of the plan! The Ring
 
could not stay on his hand… he had to put it back now, give it back to his old self. But he couldn’t…  the  feeling  that  the  Ring  gave  him;  it  was…  incredible!  But  Harry  had  to remind himself, this wasn’t his body… this wasn’t his body!
Using every but of willpower that he possessed, Harry quickly tore the Ring off of  his finger and threw it back onto  Dumbledore’s other  hand. Though, he didn’t realize that he got it back; he was still busy crying and gripping onto his bleeding stub.
“ANA… TA…. NA… RU,” gasped Harry, feeling incredibly worn out from giving up the Ring. But, the knowledge that it would all soon be over got him through it. Once again,  time  appeared  to  freeze,  and  the  same  black  clouds  popped  out  of  Harry  and Dumbledore, floating back to their original bodies just as quickly as they had switched in the first place.
Almost instantly, Harry was back in his old body… and in immense pain! It was only matched by last year, when he had caught the Snitch then hidden spikes had popped out  of  it,  impaling themselves  through his hand. But, Harry knew that the  hard part was over, it was all the home stretch now… the final sprint! Knowing that, he pushed the pain aside, and glared at Dumbledore.
“Now what purpose did that just serve?” he demanded, looking a bit woozy from changing bodies.
“Don’t  you  know?” asked  Harry,  standing  up  and  tasting  victory.  “Whoever  is currently wearing the Ring has the ability to control the bodies and minds of everyone else that has ever worn it. And, approximately fifteen seconds ago I believe, you wore the Ring, meaning I control you now.”
“What…?” gasped Dumbledore, looking in shock. “No! That’s impossible!”
“I’m afraid it isn’t!” grinned Harry, feeling more powerful now than he ever did, even in Dumbledore’s body. “Now! Destroy the Stone!”
“NOO!” screamed Dumbledore, his body and mouth operating independently of each other. While his mouth was screaming no and begging Harry to stop, his arms were doing  something  completely  different.  His  left  arm  picked  up  the  Sorcerer’s  Stone necklace,  held it  in front  of  himself,  and his  right arm held the  wand aimed right at it, ready to blow it to pieces… which is exactly what it did less than a second later.
“NO!” yelled Dumbledore again, seeing the precious Stone explode into millions of tiny specs that slowly fell to the floor, forming a tiny pile. “Please, Harry, stop! Stop while there’s still hope! The Sorcerer’s Stone can be replaced but the other Items… they cannot!”
“Silence!”  yelled  Harry,  never  feeling  more  sure  of  anything  else  in  his  life.
“Now! Destroy the Bracelet!”
“No! Harry! Stop! NO!”
But, despite all of  Dumbledore’s protest, he ripped the Bracelet  off  of  his arm, held it in front of himself in the same way that he did with the Stone and then blew it to smithereens with his wand, destroying with it any hope Dumbledore now had of becoming an all-powerful being.
“Now, destroy the Watch,” said Harry, wanting to be rid of everything, just to be perfectly safe.
“Harry… stop…” said Dumbledore, sounding much less demanding and assertive now.  He  took  the  Watch  off  of  his  arm,  held  it  in  front  of  himself  and then  made  it
 
explode into a shower of blue specs that landed on top of some of the other tiny remains of the others on the floor.
“Now…” said Harry, taking a deep breath. “The Glove.”
“Harry… please,” said Dumbledore,  now crying as he peeled off  the final Item from  his  arm. Bursting into  tears,  he  held  the  Glove  in  front  of  him and blew it  away, finally, and once and for all, stopping any chance he would ever have.
“I hope you’re happy now,” said Dumbledore, looking at Harry as someone would look at a man who just stole  every possession he ever owned, killed his wife and kids, and then ripped his leg off. “You just destroyed any hope humanity ever had at a perfect utopia, where everyone lives in peace with each other! I hope you’re happy, Harry! I really do!”
“Peace  cannot  be  achieved through war,” said  Harry, trying to  make  one,  final point. “Now, Dumbledore, one last command… BE GONE!”
“I’ll get you Harry!” he screamed, pointing his wand at himself. “You just  wait! No matter where you are, or where you will be, you’ll never be safe because I-”
But, Harry didn’t hear anymore than that. At that instant, Dumbledore burst into flames and turned into a small pile of ash on the floor, disappearing in the same way as all of his minions did, leaving the room, and the side of good forever.
“Well…” said Harry to himself, looking around and realizing he was still the only conscious person in the room. “We won…”
And, after smiling just one more time, Harry closed his eyes and fainted.
 
Chapter 32- Harry’s Final Trial

Harry had no idea how long it  was from  when he collapsed on the  floor  in the Great  Hall  to  when  he  woke  up  on  a  cot,  half  naked  in  the  same  exact  spot.  It  was impossible  to  see  the  floor  in  the  massive  room  since  it  was covered  with small  beds everywhere, each with its own student laying on top of it, in varying states of health. Some were all bandaged up like mummies, others  only had a few scratches.  Harry looked and saw that his arm had been reattached. He flexed the fingers a few times, just to be sure, and it worked perfectly. Laying back down on the cot, Harry’s last thought before he fell asleep  again was if  now, with Dumbledore  having showed whom he  was truly  allianced with, if good still had a chance over evil.

“Harry!” came a soft voice what felt like not too much later. “Harry… get up!” After mumbling a few incoherent words, Harry sat up in his bed, rubbed his eyes,
put on his glasses, and saw Professor  McGonagall sitting down on his bed, with Ron on one side of her and Hermione and Cho on the other. All of them still had bandages on in random spots  and Harry saw that most of  the room had been cleared out. None of  them were smiling, though, and Harry didn’t blame them. What was there to smile about when the one person you always though would be your leader, ally, and most importantly friend turned his back and you, and then punched you when you weren’t looking?
“Well,  it  seems  as  though  big  heroes  need  big  amounts  of  sleep,”  sighed Professor  McGonagall, smiling for  only the briefest  of  moments, then returning to  her solemn face. “You were the last to fall in that battle and the last to wake up.”
“At first, we weren’t sure if you were going to,” choked Cho.
“You gave us quite a scare,” added Hermione.
“Yes, well… at least everything is okay now,” said Ron, looking down.
“No, Ron,” said Harry, standing up despite the pain in every bone and muscle in his body. “No… everything is not okay and it will never be okay ever again.”
“You’re right,” sighed Professor  McGonagall, not moving her face slightly away from  Harry. “Nothing will  ever  be  okay again, Harry. Now that  Dumbledore  is…  gone shall I say? Well, now I’m not sure what is going to happen.”
“I just don’t get it,” heaved Harry, wanting to tear all of his hair off of his head. “I just don’t get it! How could he… all this time? Every time he smiled at me, every time he even looked at me… how could I have known that behind that mask he was wearing there was another, totally different person?”
“You couldn’t have,” groaned the professor  again, rubbing her legs and standing up. “No one ever expected anything like this. No one….”
“But I should have!” exclaimed Harry, getting pangs of  guilt.  “Last year, at the Charms O.W.L. exam, I should have known something was up when we were allowed to use killing curses! I should have known something wasn’t quite right when I heard he was the one that instituted Extreme Quidditch! It’s all my fault!”
“It’s not your fault,” said Cho, walking over to Harry and putting her arm around him. “It’s not yours, mine, Ron, Hermione’s, it’s nobody’s fault! The only person that is responsible for what happened is Dumbledore himself.”
“Well,  him,  You-Know-Who,  and Quirrell,”  added  Professor  McGonagall.  “At
 
least one of those three is gone. Quirrell fled last night, never to come back.”
“Those  three  aside,”  continued  Cho.  “Who was the  one  who made  them  come over to  his side  in the first  place? Dumbledore. He is  the source  of  everything that has happened  ever  since  You-Know-Who’s  rise  to  power,  and  he  will  continue  to  be  the source. The only way to stop evil once and for all is to beat him.”
“And  just   how  are   we  going  to   do   that,   Miss.   Chang?”  asked   Professor McGonagall. “Dumbledore is the most powerful wizard in the world. Even if every person in this school teamed up against him, I still don’t think we’d win. Plus, he’s still got all of his followers to deal with.”
“Don’t worry,” said Harry. “As long as I have my Ring, Dumbledore is under my
 
power.”



 


“If only that were true, Harry,” moaned McGonagall.
“What do you mean?” he demanded. “That’s how I beat him this time and it’s how
 
I’m going to beat him again!”
“Harry… don’t you know that there is a cure for  the spell that the Ring puts on you?” she asked in an obvious tone of voice. “How do you think we cured Miss. Granger here? I’m sure that by now, Dumbledore has already healed himself of the curse.”
“How do you know about that incident with Hermione?” asked Harry.
“Pomfrey always informs  the professors  of  unusual conditions,” she  explained.
“At first, she didn’t even know what it was that was wrong with her. She asked me, and I knew what must  have happened. So,  you see,  if  even I know of  the  cure,  I am positive Dumbledore does as well.”
“So  then…  have  we  lost  already?”  asked  Harry.  “Before  the  battle  has  even
 
begun?”

 


“I don’t know…” she  sighed, checking her watch “I don’t know. But, I do know
 
that I still  have much work to  do, this  school  is  in  desperate  need  of  repair  after  what happened. I hope you will excuse me and that I will see you all tomorrow at breakfast… the last one you will have this year?”
“Of  course,  professor,”  said  the  four  of  them  together.  Not  even  smiling, Professor  McGonagall made her away across  the dilapidated Great Hall and through the door,  each step  echoing throughout the  hall. As soon  as she  walked through it,  another rather large chunk of the top of the archway fell to the floor. She cursed loudly and then stomped off back to wherever she was going.
“Wow Harry,” said  Ron  after  a long  silence.  “I can’t believe  you  actually  beat
Dumbledore.”
“I’m not  sure  if  that’s  the  best  thing to  brag about,” said  Harry,  glaring  at  his friend. “It’s kind of along the same line as you practically killing the entire school… only worse.”
“Yeah, I was a machine, wasn’t I?” said Ron, looking a little  proud of  himself.
“But,  I  didn’t  kill  anyone,  only  hurt  them  all.  Voldemort  was  the  one  that  did  the murdering.  Though,  I’ve  decided  to  not  stay  a  werewolf  anymore.  Madam  Pomfrey performed the Homorphus Spell on me earlier today.”
“Why not?” asked  Harry.  “Being able  to  turn  into  that  monster  could  come  in handy. After all, if you hadn’t transformed during the dance, I would have lost at the very beginning. There was no way I could have stood up against all of those kids at once like
 
you did.”
“Oh don’t get  me wrong,” added Ron. “I loved the  surge of  power I got when I turned into the beast, being able to destroy wave after wave of students as if it was nothing, but  that’s  part  of  the  reason  why I decided  against  it.  I don’t  really  want to  go  around killing people. Also, I’ve already got a chameleon in me, and I don’t know if there would have been enough room for the wolf after all.”
The four of them had a good laugh, for the first time in what seemed like forever.
“We’ll I’ve got to go take some follow-up medicine,” said Ron. “I guess I’ll see you tomorrow guys.”
“And I have to go quickly write a letter  to my parents, telling them that they don’t have to pick me up tomorrow, since I’ll be spending the summer at Ron’s house.”
“Ohh…”	said	Harry,	battering	his	eyelashes.	“How	romantic!”
“Shut up!” grinned Hermione, punching Harry in the shoulder and leaving the room. Harry and Cho were now the only ones left in it… they were all alone.
“Well, Cho,” said Harry, looking outside the window and seeing that the sun was beginning to set. “It’s getting late. I guess it’s time to go to bed.”
“Actually… Harry,” said Cho in a slightly timid voice.
“Yeah?”
“I was wondering…” she smiled, curling her hair with a finger. “After all, this is our last night together. I’ve graduated already, and you’ll still be a student next year. So, since  this  is  the  final time  we’ll be with each other,  for  a while… and I have my dorm room all to myself tonight…. Why don’t we do something… special?”
Harry  swallowed  hard,  knowing  exactly  what  she  was  talking  about.  His  first instinct was to jump at the opportunity, agree, and then go with her. But, then he thought…
. After all that happened, how could he even think about it? How could he celebrate what happened? It would be as if he was going to throw a birthday party the day after his best friend died. After  just  wading in those  thoughts, Harry knew he couldn’t. He so  wanted to… but he just… couldn’t. It would just be wrong.
“Oh, Cho…” sighed Harry, feeling all torn up inside. “Believe me when I say this. I would give anything to, but considering all that has happened…. I just… can’t. I’m sorry, Cho. I really am.”
“Oh… well, that’s okay Harry,” she said, looking a little surprised and even a little hurt. “I guess… I’ll see you later then.”
“Yeah, I guess  so,” sighed Harry, staring down at the floor,  and listening to  the sound of her footsteps as they got softer and softer as she walked away from him, out the door, and then down the hall, probably out of his life forever.
Just  then,  a  new emotion  began to  boil  up inside  of  Harry.  It  wasn’t  anger,  it wasn’t sadness,  it  wasn’t like  anything he  had ever  experienced  before.  It  was extreme hate.  Hate  beyond  anything  Harry  could  have  ever  possibly  imagined.  Just  from  the unimaginable  amounts  of  hate  flowing  through  Harry,  he  could  feel  his  heart  beating faster, his teeth salivating, his body shaking, and his eyes glowing. Dumbledore had cost him everything… everything. He had taken away everyone he had ever loved in his life, his dad, his mom, and now Cho.
“DUMBLEDORE!” screamed  Harry  at  the  top  of  his  lungs, so  loud  that  more chunks fell  from the ceiling. “Mark my words! You are going to pay! Do you hear me!?
 
YOU ARE GOING TO PAY!”

Harry wasn’t exactly sure how he fell asleep that night. All he remembered doing was walking into his dorm, seeing three of the six beds occupied, and then two that were never  to  be  filled  again.  He  sighed  to  himself  and  fell  into  his  pillow,  letting  sleep overtake him, overtake him as swiftly and powerfully as he hoped to overtake Dumbledore someday… someday soon.
But, no matter how he did it, Harry did fall asleep, and woke up bright and early the next morning, feeling infinitely refreshed. With Ron and Hermione by his side, Harry walked  down  to  the  Great  Hall  that  looked  in  much  better  condition  than  it  did  the previous  night. Almost  everything was back in  working order,  looking clean,  and some house  elves  were  even  working  on  it  right  now,  polishing  walls  and  wearing  massive smiles. What happened last night didn’t affect them… outside of giving them more work to do. Harry envied their naiveness, how he wished he could just forget what happened, or even better, have it so that it never happened at all.
“Welcome	students,”	announced	Professor	McGonagall,	now	the	new Headmaster, a few minutes  into the meal once  everyone was down there. Harry noticed that there were considerably fewer students there than usual. Harry hoped that they were still  in the Hospital Wing and not in a coffin. “While I am not exactly sure how to explain to  you  what happened  last  night,” she  stopped  as  there  was  a  sudden  crack  of  thunder outside  and a lightning flash  filled  the  sky. Rain began pouring down on  the  school  in buckets. Evidently, even the weather was angry and sad about what had happened, and Harry didn’t blame it in the least, “since most of you were under a powerful controlling spell, but I will say this, even though you all probably know it by now. Your previous Headmaster, Professor Albus Dumbledore, is no longer with us.”
“That’s because he’s a dirty traitor!” yelled one of the students, standing up and showing that he had his  arm in a sling. “He’s been You-Know-Who’s master  all of  this time!” Suddenly, most of the people in the Hall began joining in with the student, yelling random, horrible phrases.
“Yeah!”
“Dumbledore stinks!”
“Down	with	Dumbledore!”
“He’s even slimier than You-Know-Who!”
“Now now!” announced McGonagall, trying to calm down the crowd a little. “I see that  you  all  do  know what really  happened. I guess  news really  does  travel  fast  in  this school.  Seeing as  you all  already understand the  situation,  I will  not  go  into  any more detail about it. I do not want to take the risk of offending anyone’s beliefs, and will play it safe by letting you talk about it amongst yourselves, and having us professors deal with it.
“Now, I have two more announcements,” she continued, another flash of lightning and crack of thunder exploding outside. “First, I regret to inform the Slytherin House that you  are  no  longer  the  House  Cup  winners.  After  removing  the  points  that  the  illegal students gave your house, and adding many points to certain people that deserve it beyond what points can be give,” she looked at Harry, and applauded him with her eyes. He just kept staring at the floor, “Gryffindor is the new House Cup winner!”
There was some scattered applause and cheering from the members of the house,
 
but  nothing nearly  as  enthusiastic  as  it  usually  was. Harry  didn’t even open  his  mouth. There  was  no  reason  to  celebrate,  and  there  would  be  none  until  Dumbledore  was defeated. Now Harry could truly understand why there was such a massive celebration the day that Voldemort was finally vanquished.
“I am afraid that my next announcement is not nearly as cheerful as my previous one,”  she  announced,  sounding  quite  grim,  and Harry  had a  feeling  he  knew what  was coming. “As in Hogwart’s tradition, it is now my sorrowful duty to announce all those who are  unfortunate  enough  not  to  be  with  us  right  now.  I  must  now  announce  to  you  all everybody who died last night in the horrible attack on our school.”
The entire Hall was quieter than Harry had ever thought it could possibly be. Even the  house  elves  stopped  working for  a moment,  and a single  mouse  that was scurrying across the floor froze, as if not wanting to spoil the sacred moment.
“Prancy   Patil,   Stewart   Ackerly,   Joe   Coppellotti,   Paulo   Calvacanti,   Mandy Brocklehurst,   Neville   Longbottom,   Ernie   Macmillan,   Aylar   Dumbledore,   Trenholm Archibald,  Rusty  Johnson,  Eleanor   Branstone,   Akshay  Dayal,  Susan  Bones,   Morag MacDougal, Chris  Zimmermann, Mike  Baronowski,  Vikram Kumar, Malcolm  Baddock, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Blaise  Zabini, Terry Boot,  Owen Cauldwell, Hannah Abbott, and Pawan Kodandopani are all dead. This is by far the most casualties Hogwarts has ever had in all of its years, and I ask you all to raise your glasses to all of them at once, honoring them all in the same spirit….To everyone!”
“To everyone!”  repeated  everybody  in  the  Hall,  raising  their  glasses  and  then taking the finals sips, finishing the last of their drinks, ending the year.

The  rest  of  breakfast  was  quite  uneventful,  considering  everything  that  had happened.  The  entire  school  finished  packing  up  their  things  and then  made  their  way outside, which had cleared up considerably. As Harry walked out of the school with Ron and Hermione, each of them carrying several cases of stuff, the sun shone brightly and the birds were singing. It was very serene and beautiful, and Harry tried to take it all in as he walked down with his friends to the Hogwarts Express and sat down in their usual seats, ready to  go. It wasn’t too  much longer before  the train got on its  way; the inside of  the school was not a very happy place, and everyone for once, was eager to leave it for a little while.
“So,” said Ron a ways into  the  trip, breaking the  silence  that had overtaken the three of them for the past hour or so, “what do you think the next year’s going to be like, Harry?”
Harry’s first reaction was to say that they were all doomed, that it was going to be their worst year ever, and they’d be incredibly lucky if they all even lived through it. But, then he looked outside the window on the train, and saw how wonderful everything looked now that the sun had come out. Less than a few hours ago, it had been pouring rain, with no sign of stopping. But now… now it was one of the most beautiful days Harry had seen.
“Well, nobody knows for sure,” said Harry.
“Except Professor Trelawney,” interjected Ron, smiling.
“Oh yes, except  for  her,” continued Harry, grinning. “But, I can say this:  every cloud has a silver lining… if you know where to look.”
Both Ron and Hermione nodded their  heads and beamed at Harry’s response. It
 
was one of the most positive things they had heard all day and it cheered all of them up. Maybe Dumbledore had a silver lining… maybe. Harry just first had to find out where to look for it.
Just then, the train gave off a long hiss, pulled to a stop, and Harry realized that they had arrived at the station. Wondering how the trip could have ended that fast, Harry, Ron and Hermione, along with the rest  of the students stepped off of the train, and walked up to their families.
“Hey Ron!” exclaimed Fred upon seeing his little  brother  step off  of  the train.
“What gives? I thought you said only me and George had to come!”
“Yeah!” said Percy, looking quite furious. “I thought it was very important! I am missing extremely valuable work time!”
“And I had to Apparate in from Romania!” announced Charlie.
“And I had to come in from Egypt!” said an angry-looking Bill.
“Ron?” asked Mr. Weasley, stepping forward and looking very confused. “What’s going on here?”
“And you’d better have a good explanation!” fumed Mrs. Weasley, waving a finger at her son. Ron just grinned to them all, and Harry and Hermione stepped aside, to let this be more of a Weasley-only affair.
“Mom… dad… Percy, Fred, George, Charlie, Bill, Ginny, and anyone else I may have forgotten,” said Ron, smiling from ear to  ear. “I am very pleased to  announced the arrival of… Jamie Weasley.”
At that moment, Ron bowed, and Jamie, extremely timidly, walked down the steps of the train, and in front of her entire family. She was cleaned up very nicely: her skin was no longer brown and muddy, but a very nice  peach. Her clothes  were just like everyone else’s, and her hair was no longer the size of an ape. It was straight and beautiful and only came  down to  right below her  neck. Her  face  was as red as her  hair, and everyone was staring at her, wide-eyed and mouths gaping open.
“Hello everybody,” she said so quietly it was barely audible.
“Jamie…?” said  Mr.  Weasley  in  about  the  same  tone  of  voice.  “Is it…  really
 
you?”



 


“Yes daddy,” said giggled.
“Jamie!” exclaimed Mrs. Weasley, now in tears and running up to her full-grown
 
daughter. She embraced her like Harry had never seen anyone else  do before. She cried deeply into her shoulder  and everyone else  in the family joined in, being too  overcome with happiness to say anything.”
“Hey Harry!” came Dudley’s voice from behind. Harry turned around and saw his cousin, much taller now than he was at the end of Summer. Behind him stood his parents, Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, looking no different, especially in their  expressions  of being annoyed, angry, and bored all at the same time. “Sorry to intrude on your little love- in there, but are you ready to go?”
“Yeah,” said Harry, feeling more cheerful now than he ever remembered feeling. He  picked up his  bags and began walking over  towards his  family…  when suddenly, he thought of something.
“Wait a minute!” said Harry quickly, dropping his bags. “I’ve got one last thing to do!” Hearing sighs from his Uncle and Aunt, Harry sprinted as fast as he could to the other
 
end of  the  train station  that led  out  into  a giant meadow surrounded by a massive lake. Harry  ran up to  the  lake,  and using every ounce  of  willpower  and determination  in  his body, he ripped the Ring off of his finger, looked at it one last time, and then threw it as far as he could into the body of water, hearing it’s incredibly faint plop as it hit the water far away.
That being done, Harry walked back to his bags, picked them up, and smiled.
“Yes Dudley,” said Harry, taking a deep breath. “Now… now I am ready to go.”


















Epilogue

Wow, two books down! One more to go! I can’t believe I actually did it… wow. This Book Six is just ONE page shorter  than Book Five was… ARG! Maybe I’ll fix that someday when I’m not swamped with other  work, which will probably be… someday…. But,  first,  I must  say  that  this  book  would not  have been  possible  if  I had not  had the support from  all of  you fans out there, you know who you are. You kept me going. and finally  made  me  produce  this  story.  Thanks  guys,  thanks  for  you  ideas,  suggestions, everything. Thanks.
Now… please  don’t hate me! I know I made Dumbledore  the bad guy now, but please don’t hate me for it! Many fans were asking me if I would have an explanation for the “glitter of triumph” in his eye at the end of Book Four, and I didn’t buy any of those other theories that because Voldemort used certain blood in the potion, blah blah blah now he’s human, blah blah blah. Alas! Do not fear! Book Seven shall explain EVERYTHING, and bring all that has happened together. You’ll see what Dumbledore’s real deal is…
Also, I know that an incredible amount of people died in this book, both people that were close  to  Harry and the plot of  the series  and others  who were always kind of just…  there.  This  book  was  also  (hopefully)  a  little  scarier  than  the  others,  with  the pyramid and stuff, and trust me, the Seventh One will just be even more terrifying….
Whoops, I’d better stop there before I give anything away! But, like last time, this book has changed an INCREDIBLE amount from  start  to  finish. At the beginning, there was  no  card  game,  only  one  Item  (the  Ring),  no  missing  Weasley  sister,  no  Disguise Dance, and Dumbledore didn’t even turn evil at the end! Yeah… it was pretty bad the first time through. It took me forever to edit all that stuff in and make the story still  flow. But, in the end, I think it turned out pretty okay.
Yet again, after reading this Book Six and the Fifth Book, you probably still have
 
some  unanswered  questions.  Why couldn’t they  kill  Harry? Why did Dumbledore  want Harry’s  parents  dead? What  IS Voldemort’s  final  backup plan? Fear  not!  All  these  and much… MUCH more shall be revealed in the Seventh and Final Book. But please, don’t forget, I am still  in the planning phase for  Book Seven, and I only have a basic plot and good  ending written  up for  it  that  I think shall  be  almost  exactly  what J.K.  Rowling is planning to have. Any extra things that you guys would like to see in it, or ideas you have that could make it better are very welcome. You can either e-mail me them, tell me in the forum, or tell me on AIM. See you online!


-HarryWriter

